Charles Godwin, forty-two years old. Wealthy and expensively educated. He is a charming man, with a manner that is out of step with modern times.

A narcissist. But the fulcrum of the story.

Charles Godwin sits down and stretches his arms over his head, the sort of gesture that is trying to show that he is both relaxed and visible. Of course, Godwin is the sort of person who tends to think that everyone is looking at him at all times; though, of course we all think like that don't we? At least, we do, it is just that most of us like to meet the constant glare of others with humble unworthiness. Not Godwin, he is the centre of everyone's world. Funny really, considering his general appearance; he must have a mirror that shows a exceptionally favourable view. He is tall, but slouches to spoil the effect; he is slim, but has a belly that makes him look fat. He has pompous mannerisms that make him sound like a British politician, even though he is American. All that said, he is far more intelligent than your initial impression would give him credit, as such he holds your attention more than you would hope; above all he tells a good story. So, in a way, he fulfills his narcissism; he thinks his the centre of everyone's attention, and, more often than not, he is.

"I don't know, where to begin. Hmm, maybe I thought people were smarter than they are. Not _intelligent_, no, not many are; but smart, you know, can smell out what is right and natural and what is not. Seems not. You people have done a good job confusing the crowd, eh?" Godwin shifts in his seat, settling in. 

I don't see that at all. I see myself, or to be humble, people like me, to be the future. Not you. Sure I get that we all need to grow up. But to do so my plugging computers into our flesh, well, it's just so primitive. It's only a small extention of your average chipped-stone tool really. We need to advance our minds, not make better tools, this needs to be about spirituality, not technology."

"So you want to make a cult then. The church of Charles Godwin. Please, that's all a bit old isn't it? Religion."

"It's not religion. Nor is it a cult, Gray. See, you think that Lia is better off for having that contraption stuffed in her head?"

"No, she needs to work on, ..."

"Her mind, Gray, her mind. Because she is uncertain of her mind, the technology is worthless. Now, I'd go so far as to say your mind has been developed. I'd go so far as to suggest that you've worked on your _mind_ as equally hard as your impressive body. Your mind is as hard as those muscles you love to show off to everyone."

"Flirting with me won't get you anywhere. You are so far from my type, Charles, you could not imagine."

"I can Gray; and it is a mutual disinterest. Your mind, well that is different. I find your mind facinating. Tell me about Lia, your words. I'm interested to see your version."
