
# Prologue

<span class="firstLetter">M</span>Y NAME IS CHARLES GODWIN. I am a forgetful old man with a clouded and uncertain mind. Luckily, the past is clear and remember it well. Those memories are still vivid and have a vitality that my decrepitude does no diminish. That is why I enjoy the company of the young. Their minds remind me of how I once was. They ask questions that lift the fog, for a while at least. Most often their question is, "How did we come to live the way we do?" The answer takes me back, years ago, to when events still made deep impressions. That time was a golden age. It was exciting, with so much change in the air, it was full of vibrant possibilities. It was the very best time to be young, and I have a deep ache in my heart at its passing. Of course, it was touch and go whether we would all pull through it. It could have all ended. But, it worked out. Sense prevailed, I suppose. We made our choices then, and we live by them now. Some are not happy with this, of course. Their complaint is the same as has echoed through history. They ask, "Why should I suffer the sins of my father?" I cannot answer that. We are here. Compromises were made then to avoid catastrophe. People were allowed to do what they wanted to do, and each took their path to where we are now - apart. 

We know where we are now. That is not the question asked. It is how we got here; what were the events that led us to this point? In response, I could put together a convincing history, full of big themes and grandiose philosophy. I won't. All that stuff is rubbish; it is no more than propaganda, a victor's narrative. Unfortunately, there were no victors in all this; everyone lost something. 

It started for me many years ago, not long after I left university. I was reading a lot about certain biological experiments being done, usually to rats and monkeys. These weren't being done for the sake of medical science I felt, though many claimed they were. No, they were meddling with biology with the goal to make a new, improved human. The practitioners of this were called *Transhumanists* and they intended to change the world. 

They did.

It was a time of great change. But, mixed with the excitement, was an air of apprehension about the future. A social revolution was under way. It was just the starting then. If you were paid to do any repetitive task, a machine was going to replace you. Soon, countless people were put out of their traditional jobs by an efficient mix of artificial intelligence, automation and robotics. No matter how cheap your local human workforce, it could not compete with machines that never ate, slept or had a holiday. Most manual jobs would disappear from the developed nations of the world within a decade or so. 

But, it wasn't intelligent machines that would change the world. While people were preoccupied with automation and the loss of jobs, in the background stalked a greater threat. What I saw was not lost livelihoods, but the loss of what it meant to be human. That was not a common belief at the time. The concepts of *transhumanism* and *bio-hacking* were seen as a joke, some fringe activity wished about by crazies and adolescent boys. It was not real to most people. I wish now we had only taken it seriously; we could have stopped it then. There was a simmering anxiousness in people, and I hoped it would all boil over and be a tide to wash all that stuff away. The people felt something. Their reason to be, their work, their lives, was being eroded by technology and automation. This new threat was to compound their woes further and make them even less significant. But when the people did lash out and demonstrated their angst, their malcontent, they mistook their real enemies. They instead struck at those more historically familiar to them. They marched and protested against globalisation, immigrants, religions even whole countries they'd never visited nor knew much about. They were distracted by the wrong things and were re-enacting old battles long settled. The opportunity was lost. It vanished from view as if a hidden hand were at work. And, of course, it was. It was the grandest of conspiracies.

The wealthiest of that time were willing to take the greatest of gambles - they lay their bets on the future of humanity itself. They desired to fiddle with the fabric of our being. They were arrogant and their intentions pure vanity. They wished to cheat death and make themselves immortal. They believed they could do a better job than the exquisite evolutionary engineering that produced us. They had turned their backs on millions of years of fine-tuning that made us who we were and what we had. We had, and some of us still have, a vital spark, a bright light within us that shone out and threw back the dark of the world. No other creature had that, only we did, and it set us apart. These people sought to extinguish it through their ignorance and hubris. 

I was terrified of what was happening. To fight it I founded the *Human Association*. Its goal was to assure humanity's future and publicise the incredible threat Transhumanism brought to society. We fought for the ordinary person; we fought for the likes of the young who now ask their questions. We failed. I fell hard too. My reputation was left in pieces. Lots of things were said about me then. Fortunately, some supporters of mine believed in me. They asked me to 

But, one thing I have to say, I was never the monster many painted me to be. No one wants to live their life the villain. I was not that. To paraphrase a dear friend of mine: there were no black hats in that story, nor any white. We were all to blame for what happened. 

<!-- Asked to write a book -->

And what did happen? I will tell you my small part. I remember it so clearly, even now. I will let the others involved all tell theirs, through me. 
