
# Chapter 1 
LIA COX WAS MY FIRST direct experience of an *Enhancer* -- someone who had physically augmented themselves. Her story started when I was still head of the *Human Association*. We were looking for someone who could showcase the horrors of *Transhumanism* and Lia had fit the bill. Indeed, if events were to have played out differently, Lia would have been the perfect poster girl for our cause. She was young, talented enough and with real prospects to do well later in life. She would have illustrated to the world all that could go wrong with the Transhuman dream. 

We were tipped off about her by her boyfriend, or ex-boyfriend, Kyle. He sent a private message to the account *@H+CONCERNED*, which the *Human Association* was running at the time. He told us that Lia was flying from New Zealand to Shanghai to have surgery to insert a device into her brain. Kyle lacked exact details, but he was worried, he was desperate to help her, he told us. We assured him that we'd find her and give her any assistance we could. In return, he gave us the flight number, a fair few photos, as well as her various social media usernames. Lia became a prize to us. She was the first instance of someone at this stage; others we knew of had already gone through with the work. By that point, they were of no use and they didn't want anything to do with us. Lia was different we felt, if we could get to her early. If we could convince her to work with us, she could create problems for the Transhumanists. We could also use her to let the local authorities in China know about Dr Li, and his involvement in the black market usage of the devices called *Gates*. We hoped to help close down his operation. I flew out that week, with Susan Christien, my close colleague at the *Human Association*.

We arrived in Shanghai not knowing what we were going to do. We didn't have a plan, not in any detail. We were to follow Lia to find Dr Li. Beyond that, the mechanics of it, we had no idea. We weren't spies, or agents of a secret conspiracy, as some have made us out to be. We were a small group that believed in something. At best, we were passionate amateurs. We were lucky ones at that. We made stupid mistakes but still came out ahead. Things just went our way. For instance, we thought we could simply follow Lia from the airport to her hotel. The airport is a long way from the city. We hadn't thought it through -- how would we convince the taxi to follow another one? Even if we found an actual driver, we had no Chinese between us. But, we were blessed, and when Lia emerged from the arrivals hall, she didn't go for the taxi exit. She went for the Maglev exit instead. We found it straightforward to follow her to her hotel on public transport.

Susan and I then watched the hotel. We sat in the lobby, taking turns to look out for her. The following morning, Lia came down from her room and walked right past us. She looked anxious. She was in a foreign country with no grasp of the language or culture. She was going to have a piece of metal inserted into her skull by someone she'd never met -- of course, she was anxious. It made following her easier. She stood out. The fact that the streets were not as crowded as we had anticipated helped us too. Shanghai was such a vast metropolis, a mega-city, yet it had a calm, Zen-like air. It lacked the tense, aggressive, chaos of places like Mumbai, or Mexico City. That said, it wasn't a strict order like Singapore either; it was organic. Along the streets, riders on hired electric scooters ran, almost silently, in all directions, at speed. Young and excited adults rode bicycles in loose groups, their numbers a defence against any dangers. Buses and taxis pushed through them, like harmless whales that swam through shoals of colourful fish, and the bikes and scooters parted at the last possible moment. Any stragglers separated from their group sped up to rejoin, their legs an eager blur, and the taxi or bus would slow down, mindful of their passing. There was an easy rhythm to it all, and if you were attuned to it, it was pleasant. If you weren't, like Lia, progress along the streets was perilous and nerve-wracking. She walked more in the street than on the pavement. The small shops, selling everything from noodles to scooters to electrical parts, spilt out over the pavement and forced her off it. Rows of bikes were parked on there; scooters rode along it. It made it hard to get through. Lia jumped from side to side, making herself more visible against the street flow. We walked along, in almost plain sight, following her.

After a while, Lia stopped. She compared a street sign against some details on her phone. She turned down that road. It too was lined with small shops, this time selling crockery, tea, fruit and haircuts. Music blared out from the hairdressers, two hot looking young girls, in sexy suits and wearing bright pink sashes, stood to attention outside. Next to it, opposite a narrow alley, was an office. Its purpose was not evident. Above the door, 'Twelf', was written, and underneath that, '十二号'. When I looked up I could see it was an office block, at least 20 stories high. From my position, it looked dusty and disused. Lia went in and Susan and I didn't see her again then for over a week. We waited.

## *

A couple of years after our first meeting in Shanghai, I caught up with Lia Cox again. I hadn't seen her for over a year and she was back in New Zealand. I flew out to see Lia there, and we met a few times during my week-long stay in Wellington, her home town. I met her so she could tell her side of things. Of all the people I met, she was the hardest to talk to. A mutual friend, Gray, had to broker the meetings as Lia didn't want anything to do with me initially. 

Our first meeting was in a café, right in the centre of town. It was quiet when we arrived and, at first, Lia was almost monosyllabic. We settled into a nook in the corner, on comfy seats.

- "I'm glad you came, Lia," I said. 
- "Gray convinced me. I still think you're a prick, Godwin. You better keep your side of the bargain. You recording this?" she demanded. 
- "I am," and I placed my phone in the centre of the table. Silence fell between us. Lia looked sullen and moody and young - like a teenager. I could sense she had little trust in me and that was fair I suppose.

## *

I didn't want to see Charles Godwin. Last time I had spoken to him, he wanted me to get deeper in the shit I was already in. When it all went wrong, he was nowhere to be seen. He never cared about me. I was just a tool to him, no more. When I spoke to Gray about it, I was amazed when she said I should meet with Godwin and tell him what happened. She asked how would anyone know the truth, the real truth, unless I told it. The deal was, that Godwin would record the meeting and then put the transcript in the book. It didn't exactly work out like that. Sure, he recorded it, but he also added stuff in. It made me look a flake. See, Godwin was just not trustworthy. In the end, I wrote it down myself. I wanted to tell my own story. I wouldn't let him publish unless he used my words. He never published.

Things got interesting for me when I went into Dr Li's clinic, in Shanghai. I had flown in from New Zealand the previous day. Dr Li had told me it wasn't far from the hotel, but it felt like I had trekked across the whole city to find it. I hated it there, it was massive and chaotic, cars and scooters everywhere - everyone just doing what they wanted. When I battled my way through to the clinic I thought at first I had the address wrong. It was just a cheap looking old office block. I wasn't expecting anything flashy, but the place was not what I expected. The address was right, I was in the right place, so I went in.

Inside was empty. Opposite the front door was an office desk. On top was this huge old CRT computer monitor with matching beige keyboard and mouse. It was like something from the nineteen-nineties, like an office museum. I was thirty minutes early, so I guessed no one was expecting me yet. It didn't look seedy or anything, but disused, and a bit dusty. In the corner was another door. When I opened it, I could see it led downstairs. The stairs were well lit and clean, so I went down. It smelt of fresh paint. At the bottom was another door which was half-open. Beyond that, was a renovated office that was modern, clean and efficient looking. That is where I first met Dr Li.

The clinic really surprised me. In my mind, I had imagined a rain-washed, humanity crammed and squalid Asian city. The clinic would be, you know, a back street affair, where the surgery would be done under a naked lightbulb by a greasy looking man in a blood-stained white t-shirt. The reality was not like that at all, and I was pretty relieved, I can tell you.

- Dr Li said to me, "Hey, this is not like that movie Bladerunner, is it?" He laughed, I remember, his sweet laugh. "It's okay, everyone thinks because this is China and we do sci-fi stuff, this must be like sci-fi movie! This is Shanghai; it is very modern." 
- I reckon he was very proud of his city. He came across as this genuine and likeable man. He calmed me down; I don't know why.

The operation went fine. This woman had shown up not long after I first got there. She was the anaesthetist. She seemed competent. They prepped me. Dr Li shaved an area on the back of my head below where my crown is. It was a circle about the width of my fist. They then made me have a shower and put one of those gapey hospital gowns and paper knickers. They then took me into a small, clean room with a trolley bed. I lay on it, face down. The woman gave me an injection, and I slipped away with Dr Li holding my hand, saying soothing rubbish that I can't remember any more.

When I woke, my head hurt. It was a dragging ache, though, not a sharp pain. I asked Dr Li if everything had gone well. 

- He said, "Of course, I do this many times now." He then turned and lifted up the hair at the back of his head. There was a *Gate*! Dr Li also had a *Gate*. That made me feel a lot better. To know the person who had drilled a hole in my head and attached something to my brain had also had the same work done was comforting. You know, like getting a tattoo from someone with great tats. 
- I just drifted in and out, sleeping and dozing, for hours, I guess. Then, I was hungry and thirsty. He came in with this sweet tea drink in a gaudy bottle and a brown paper bag with this flat savoury pancake. I guzzled the bottle and stuffed the pancake down. I could have had anything, and it would have been good, but it was exactly the right thing at that time. I felt better. My focus then centred on the back of my head. I remember reaching my hand around. Dr Li took my hand and guided it. I could feel something there, a cold and smooth metal. He then showed me his work. I sat in a chair in front of a mirror, like a hairdressers. He held up another mirror behind my head. It showed the bald circle on my head. In the centre was a metal ring. The skin around it was pink, with regular lines of neat stitches radiating out like the points of a star. 
- He told me, "It will ache for a couple of weeks and itch very badly for a month or more. But after a couple of months, you won't notice it. Trust me. You must try to keep it clean. And don't bang it on anything until it has fully healed. Sleeping will not be easy. So, take things gently for a while. Take one of these, every day until they are gone." He shook a bottle of pills at me. He then wiped the area down, cleaning it. 
- "Very good. It is like trepanning. You know this? They used to cut holes in skulls to let out the spirits! In Victorian times, it was something done often, for fashion. We have better medicine today, so even safer. And you get more than just a hole in your head, yes? I watch you overnight and tomorrow you can go to hotel and rest. It is that easy."
- I spent a few hours with Dr Li, just talking. He was so friendly. He then left me to sleep. I was out like a light. I couldn't remember whether he came in again, or not.

In the morning, he returned, bringing breakfast. I felt pretty good, but still tired and groggy. Dr Li checked me over and hummed and nodded his approval at my recovery.

- "You good now," he said. "Now I show you how to connect. Okay?" He held up a smooth cylinder. "This connects you to the Internet." He pushed a small button on the side. It flashed a tiny blue light. "You can pair this to your phone, easy for you I think. Okay?" He then leant me forward and pressed the cylinder into the hole in the centre of the metal circle. 
- I felt it click in. He gave me my phone, and I searched for a new device. There was only one listed. I clicked 'Connect', and I felt my mind flash for a moment. It was a strange feeling. Not anything too special, but strange. I wasn't sure how I was supposed to feel. 
- "Relax. I will come back in a while. Your brain will work out what to do. Then you need to learn what to do with that. You will be exhausted." He left me. He was right I did feel tired again. If I closed my eyes, I could glimpse what I thought were words hanging in the dark, behind my eyelids, but if I focussed they faded away. I remember drifting off.

Dr Li came back and woke me. I had no idea of the time, or what was happening. 

- He smiled at me, "See, I told you it would make you sleepy. I have got you a taxi. It is late now. You go back to your hotel. Relax and sleep for a week. You will work it out. Once you have managed to get on the Internet, message me. Yes?" 
- I was so dopey and confused, I agreed. He put a silvery surgical pad over the area on the back of my head. I put a loose hat over it all. He helped me out of the clinic and bundled me into the taxi that was waiting outside. It knew where to go. I must have drifted off in the cab; I woke outside the hotel. The concierge was shaking my arm to wake me. I went up to my room and slept for what must have been two days straight. I never saw Dr Li again. I was supposed to go back and see him a week later. But I never did. I received a message not to come back. He was gone. I just stayed in my hotel room, miserable and alone.

But, a week of hotel room service, movies and TV is enough to make anyone stir-crazy. My head had healed incredibly, just as Dr Li had said it would. I called up the concierge and asked, where would be a good place to go for a beer. He gave me a couple of options, I went for the one that wasn't the hotel bar. I put on a floppy hat over my *Gate* and left. The concierge had a taxi already waiting and I went to the bar where my life changed. It was at that bar I first met Charles Godwin, and it all went downhill from there, although I didn't know it at the time. 

## *

We could have dealt with Lia better. But you have to understand that she was an excellent opportunity for us. The Enhancers, as we called them, were dangerous. They could do things natural people could not. Lia was a tool for us to expose that. She could also help us find out the truth of their agenda.

Susan Christien and I waited for Lia back at the hotel and watched. Lia did not leave her room for four or five days. Then one day, she left the hotel. She got into a taxi and was gone! We thought we had lost her. We were only saved by Susan having the speed of mind to ask the concierge where Lia went. She told him we were Lia's friends and were supposed to meet her, but her phone must be switched off, or didn't work in China. The concierge went for Susan's story. He told us that Lia had gone to a bar he'd recommended. We jumped in a taxi and gave the vehicle our destination. 

It was one of those hipster beer bars. Lia told me that she was very much a craft beer fan. She was missing home, so she had gone there on the concierge's recommendation. When we got there, I went into the back room conservatory area and left Susan to draw Lia out. We had more luck, apart from the serving staff, we were the only people in the bar that afternoon. The place was dead. Lia sat next to a roaring fireplace that threw out heat into the room. Susan went over to her. She told Lia that her work colleague was in the back, and asked whether she wanted to join us, given how she was alone. She did. I assumed it was because Lia was somehow desperate for company, but she denied that later. Susan led her through. We all sat at the table under the heat lamps out the back. We told her we were from a large technology company and were in town trying to win some business. Of course, we said, we couldn't tell her anything about it due to non-disclosure agreements and so on. She was animated and intrigued.

The beer helped too; as she relaxed, we were able to encourage her to confide in us. We also let slip information about our business deal, all hush, hush, of course - and purely invented. Then, as if an imaginary line was crossed, she told us everything. She told us why she was in Shanghai, what she had done, everything. She told us too of her loneliness, of her inability to connect to people, of having nothing to belong to. Before we knew it, she was sobbing. We consoled her and told her we could help. 

Over the course of the next week, Susan and I came to learn more about Lia's *Gate*. As time passed, she could do more and more things with it, like calling a taxi, or messaging someone - all just by thinking about it, she told us. We were disturbed by the speed that she was gaining these skills. We needed to win her over to our side. We made up a story. We told her that the company that produced the *Gate*, *Bright Futures Cybernetics*, was a competitor to ours. But, we told her, they ran some ethically dubious trials around the world that made it difficult for us to remain competitive. We wanted to expose this in order to close the gap commercially. We told her that we knew they were trialling a integration solution for the *Gate*. This solution would enable the *Gate* to provide impaired patients a means of sight and hearing, even touch. It was untested, but they were evaluating it somewhere, on live subjects. We set Lia to help us find the details of the trial so we could publish the results online. She was keen to help and we told her we would make it all worth her while. Our trip to Shanghai had been fruitful.

