
# Chapter 1 - The Story

I am Charles Godwin. I am old, and I forget many things. My mind is left cloudy and uncertain. But, I do remember the past. Those memories are still vivid and have a vitality that my decrepitude cannot diminish. That is why I enjoy the company of the young. They remind me of how I once was. They ask questions that lift the fog, and I am renewed, for a while at least. Most often their question is, "How did we come to live the way we do?" The answer takes me back, years ago, to when I was young also, and events still made deep impressions on my mind. That time was a golden age. It was exciting, with so much change in the air, it was full of possibilities. It was the very best time to be young, and I have a deep ache in my heart at its passing. Of course, it was touch and go whether we would all pull through it. It could have all ended then. But, it worked out. Sense prevailed, I suppose. We made our choices then, and we live by them now. Some are not happy with it, of course. Their complaint is the same as has echoed through history. They ask, "Why should I suffer the sins of my father?" I cannot answer that. We are here. Compromises were made then to avoid catastrophe. People were allowed to do what they wanted to do, and each took their path to where we are now - apart. 

We know where we are now. That is not the question. It is how we got here; what were the events that led us to this point? To give you an answer, I could put together a convincing history, full of big themes and grandiose philosophy. I won't. All that stuff is rubbish; it is no more than propaganda, a victor's narrative. You see, there were no victors in all this; everyone lost something. I cannot go into the detail of that; it is too complex. Instead, I will give you a simple story that was, to my mind, the start of it all. It is about a little girl who fell ill and nearly died. Some say, she did die and was resurrected. To those, she is a prophet and the catalyst to all the change we have gone through. She led them across the Rubicon, to a point from which there was no return, for anyone.

It all started for me many years ago, not long after I left university. I had read a lot about biological experiments being done. These weren't being done for the sake of medical science, though many claimed they were. No, they were meddling with biology with the goal to make a new, improved human. The practitioners of this were called *Transhumanists* and they intended to change the world. They did.

It was a time of great change. But, mixed with the excitement, was an air of apprehension about the future. A social revolution was under way. It was just the beginning then, but if you were paid for any repetitive task, a machine was going to replace you. Soon, countless people were put out of their traditional jobs by an effective mix of artificial intelligence, automation and robotics. No matter how cheap your local human workforce, it could not compete with machines that never ate, slept or had a holiday. Most manual jobs would disappear from the developed nations of the world within a decade or so. 

But, it wasn't intelligent machines that would change the world. While people were preoccupied with automation and the loss of jobs, in the background stalked a greater threat. What I saw was not lost livelihoods, but the loss of what it meant to be human. That was not a common belief at the time. The concept of *bio-hacking* was seen as a joke, a fringe activity wished about by crazies and adolescent boys. It was not real to most people. If we had only taken it seriously, we could have stopped it then. There was a simmering anxiousness in people and I hoped it would boil over and be a tide to wash all that stuff away. The people felt something. Their reason to be, their work, their lives, was being eroded by technology and automation. This new threat was to compound their woes further and make them even less significant. But when the people lashed out and demonstrated their angst, their malcontent, they mistook their real enemies. They instead struck at those more historically familiar to them. They marched and protested against globalisation, immigrants, religions even whole countries they'd never visited or knew little about. They were distracted by the wrong things and were re-enacting old battles long settled. The opportunity was lost. It vanished from view as if a hidden hand had hidden it. And, of course, there was. It was the grandest of conspiracies. I don't have the details now, but let me tell you, significant players of the time had a part in it. They suppressed the media and diverted people's attention elsewhere. There was a lot at stake for them, see. They weren't going to allow a public debate on how they spent their money.

The wealthiest of the time were willing to take the greatest of gambles - they lay their bets on the future of humanity. They desired to fiddle with the fabric of our being. They were arrogant and their intentions pure vanity. They wished to cheat death and make themselves immortal. They believed they could do a better job than the exquisite evolutionary engineering that produced us. They had turned their backs on millions of years of fine-tuning that made us who we were and what we had. We had, and some of us still have, a vital spark, a bright light within us that shone out and threw back the dark of the world. No other creature had that, only we did, and it set us apart. These people would seek to extinguish it through ignorance and hubris. 

I was terrified of what was happening. To fight it I founded the *Human Association*. Its goal was to assure humanity's future. We fought for the ordinary person; we fought for the likes of the young who now ask their questions. We failed. I fell hard too. My reputation was in pieces. But one thing I have to say, I was never the monster many painted me to be. No one wants to live their life the villain. I was not that. To paraphrase a dear friend of mine: No one wore a black hat in that story, nor anyone white. We were all to blame for what happened. And what did happen? I will tell you my small part. I remember it so clearly, even now. I will let the others involved all tell theirs, through me. 

After the dust had settled, I didn't give up. I sought out those I had struggled against to see if I could better understand their point of view. I still felt I must reignite the most crucial debate of our time. I thought it wasn't too late, even then. I still believed what I had been fighting for was right; the very essence of it correct. I had lost what was an unfair and dirty fight, on both sides, but I maintained that I held the moral high ground. Luckily, I found I was not alone. When I returned from the wilderness and lifted myself from the place I had dug, I found I still had connections. There were people of influence on my side who would help get me back on my feet and in front of an audience. They were informed. They believed in the importance of what I had to say. They wanted me to tell my story.

Of course, it was all too late. Those experiments, those that were in isolation no more than discomforting, were bearing fruit. These were things people had been able to do since the first decade of this century became each a part of the new order of things. The prosthetic limbs that could be inserted directly into bones without risk of infection and moved by nerve impulses alone became the basis of physical change. Enhancements to your brain, to remember things for you when your mind was failing became a boost for more that the aged and allowed instant learning. A device attached into your brain that gave a direct interface with the Internet meshed together people in a way never seen. The speed of advancement was breathtaking. All these parts came together so fast people failed to grasp the possibilities of it all. Before anyone could even discuss it, individuals were not just augmenting themselves, they were radically modified. The lawmakers and regulators couldn't keep up. Their heads were stuck in the sands of a past already lost. It resided outside conventional medical science, at an ethically grey fringe that had no regulation. All the same, people were queuing up for it, to be part of it, despite the huge risks. The technology came together, each part a piece of a larger puzzle, and the early evangelists forged them into something new. When they did, all was lost.
 
Yet, I pressed on, my youth unwilling to concede defeat. I travelled widely. I followed a story that was spread across the globe, from New Zealand to Shanghai, from London to California. I met the people who played their part so I could tell it better from their point of view. The journey to recount the story had its story too, I found out later. Even though the world had gone through tumultuous times and humanity has split apart, I have never been as alive as I was then. I was centre-stage with a headline act. That was my moment. Later, all I could do was sit in the audience like everyone else, my career done.
