
# Chapter 2 
<!-- 
- Okay - this is the first Chapter.
- Needs a new opening
- Need a clear reason why he is talking to her - why does Lia let Godwin speak to her?
- Need to work out how to deal with what Godwin is doing and make sense of it for the reader
-->

I was too young to concede defeat. Some supporters of mine asked me to write a book of the events I was involved with. I agreed and travelled widely to meet with the people involved. I pieced together a story that spanned the globe, from New Zealand to Shanghai, from London to California. It was a great story. The people involved in it knew that too, otherwise why would they want to meet me and tell their part in it? Even those who I had hurt the most wanted to contribute. Others became more, they became my friends.

<span class="firstLetter">L</span>IA COX WAS MY FIRST direct experience of an *Enhancer* - someone who had physically augmented themselves. She had returned to New Zealand and picked up where I had first heard of her and was back working as a software developer in the same multinational IT services company, once owned by Melvin Taylor. Her re-hiring may have been a publicity stunt on their part - an idea I had earlier considered myself. See, if events were to have played out differently, Lia would have been the perfect poster girl. She was young, a woman, talented enough and with real prospects to do well in life. She would have illustrated to the world all that could go wrong with the transhuman dream. She had lived its nightmare, after all. But, I have to be blunt, much of her problems were of her making. She gave me insight into some things I didn't know at the time, but nothing too deep. Her journey did not change her. It only confirmed what she already felt, deep inside. I travelled to New Zealand to see her. A mutual friend had to broker the meeting though; Lia did not want anything to do with me. Eventually she was convinced, she was sold on the idea that she could tell her side of things and that it wouldn't be me telling it.

I met Lia a few times during a week-long stay in Wellington. Of all the people I met, she was the hardest to talk to. She had no trust in me, and that was fair I suppose.

We were tipped off by her boyfriend, or ex-boyfriend, Kyle. He sent a private message to the account *@H+CONCERNED* that we were running at the time. He was worried about her. He was desperate. We said we'd help find her and give her any assistance we could. In return, he gave us the flight number, a fair few photos, as well as her various social media usernames. Lia was a prize to us. She was the first instance of someone at this stage; others we knew of, had already had the work done. By that point, they were of no use. Lia was different. If we could convince her to work with us, she could help create problems for the transhumanists. We could use her to let the local authorities in China know about Dr Li and his involvement, and close down his operation. I flew out that week, with a couple of colleagues from the *Human Association*, Chris Neil and Susan Christien.

We arrived in Shanghai not knowing what we were going to do. We didn't have a plan, not in any detail. We were to follow Lia to find Dr Li. Beyond that, the mechanics of it, we had no idea. See, we weren't spies, or agents of a secret conspiracy, as some have made out to be. We were a small group that believed in something. At best, we were passionate amateurs. We were lucky ones at that. We made stupid mistakes but still came out ahead. Things were just going our way. We thought we could follow Lia from the airport to her hotel. The airport is a long way from the city. We hadn't thought it through - how would we convince one taxi to follow another. Even if we found an actual driver, we had no Chinese between us. When Lia emerged from the arrivals hall, she didn't go for the taxi exit. She went for the Maglev exit instead. We found it simple to follow someone on public transport.

We managed to track Lia from the airport to her hotel. She looked anxious. It made following her easier. She stood out. She was in a foreign country with no grasp of the language or culture. She was going to have a piece of metal inserted into her skull by someone she'd never met. Of course, she was anxious. The fact that the streets were not as crowded as we had anticipated helped us too. Shanghai was such a vast metropolis, a mega-city, yet it had a calm, Zen-like air then. It lacked the tense, aggressive, chaos of places like Mumbai, or Mexico City. That said, it wasn't a strict order like Singapore either; it was organic. Along the streets, riders on hired electric scooters ran, almost silently, in all directions, at speed. Young and excited adults rode bicycles in loose groups, their numbers a defence against any dangers. Buses and Taxis pushed through them all at an even pace. They swam through them like whales through shoals of colourful fish. The bikes and scooters parted at the last possible moment. Any stragglers that separated from the group sped up to rejoin, while the taxi or the bus would slow down patiently. There was an easy pace to it all if you were attuned to it; it was pleasant. If you weren't, like Lia, progress along the streets was perilous and nerve-wracking. She walked more in the street than on the pavement. The small shops, selling everything from noodles to scooters to electrical parts, spilt out over the pavement and forced her off. Rows of bikes were parked on there; scooters rode along it. It made it hard to get through. Lia jumped from side to side, making herself more visible against the street flow. We walked along, in almost plain sight, following her.

After a while, Lia stopped. She compared a street sign against some details on her phone. She turned down that road. It too was lined with small shops, this time selling crockery, tea, fruit and haircuts. Music blared out of the hairdressers, two hot looking young girls, wearing bright pink sashes, stood to attention outside. Next to it, opposite a narrow alley, was an office. Its purpose was not evident. Above the door, 'Twelf', was written, and underneath that, '十二号'. When I looked up I could see it was an office block, at least 20 stories high. From my position, it looked dusty and disused.

Lia went in. She told me, later, "Inside was empty. Opposite the front door was an office desk. On top was this huge old CRT computer monitor with matching beige keyboard and mouse. It was like something from the nineteen-nineties. I was thirty minutes early, so I guessed no one was expecting me yet. It didn't look seedy or anything, but disused, and a bit dusty. In the corner was this other door. When I opened it, I could see it led downstairs. The stairs were well lit and clean, so I went down. It smelt of fresh paint. At the bottom was another door which was half-open. Beyond that a renovated office that was modern, clean and efficient looking. That is where I first met Dr Li." 

Lia told me she was completely surprised by the clinic and its clean efficiency. "In my mind was a vision of a rain-washed, humanity crammed, squalid Asian city. You know, a back street affair, where the surgery would be done under a naked lightbulb by a grubby man in a blood-stained white t-shirt. It was not like that *at all*, and I had felt relieved, I can tell you. Dr Li had said to me, 'Hey, this is not like Bladerunner, is it?' He had laughed, I remember, his sweet laugh. 'It's okay, everyone thinks because this is China and we are doing sci-fi stuff, this must be like a sci-fi movie! This is Shanghai; it's very modern.' I reckon he was very proud of his city. He came across as this genuine and likeable man. He calmed me down; I don't know why.

"The operation went fine. This woman had shown up not long after I first got there. She was the anaesthetist. She seemed competent. They prepped me. Dr Li shaved an area on the back of my head where my crown is. It was a circle about the width of my fist. They then made me have a shower and put one of those gapey hospital gowns and paper knickers. They then took me into a small, clean room with a trolley bed. I lay down on it, face down. The woman gave me an injection, and I slipped away with Dr Li holding my hand, saying soothing rubbish that I can't remember anymore."

When Lia woke, her head hurt. "A dragging ache, though, not a sharp pain," she told me. "I asked Dr Li if everything had gone well. He said, 'Of course, I've done this many times now.' He then turned and lifted up the hair at the back of his head. There was a *Gate*! Dr Li also had a *Gate*. That made me feel a lot better. To know the person who had drilled a hole in my head and attached something to my brain had also had the same work done was comforting. You know, like getting a tattoo from someone with great tats", Lia said. "I just drifted in and out, sleeping and dozing, for hours, I guess. Then, I was hungry and thirsty. He came in with this sweet tea drink in a gaudy bottle and a brown paper bag with this flat savoury pancake. I guzzled the bottle and stuffed the pancake down. I could have had anything, and it would have been good, but it was *exactly* the right thing at that time. I felt better. My focus then centred on the back of my head. I remember reaching my hand around. Dr Li took my hand. I could feel something there, a cold and smooth metal. He then showed me his work. I sat in a chair in front of a mirror, like a hairdressers. He held up another mirror behind my head. It showed the bald circle on my head. In the centre was a metal ring. The skin around it was pink and sore looking, with regular lines of stitches radiating out like the points of a star. He told me, 'It will ache for a couple of weeks and itch very badly for a month or more. But after a couple of months, you won't notice it. Trust me. You must try to keep it clean. And don't bang it on anything until it has fully healed. Sleeping will not be easy. So, take it easy for a while. Take one of these, every day until they are gone.' He shook a bottle of pills at me. He then wiped the area down, cleaning it.

"I spent a few hours there, with Dr Li. He was so friendly. 'You good now,' he said. 'Now I show you how to connect. Okay?' He held up a smooth cylinder. 'This connects you to the Internet.' He pushed a small button on the side. It flashed a tiny blue light. 'You can pair this to your phone, easy for you I think. Okay?' He then leant me forward and pressed the cylinder into the hole in the centre of the metal circle. I felt it click in. He gave me my phone, and I searched for a new device. There was only one listed. I clicked 'Connect', and I felt my mind flash for a moment. It was a strange feeling. Not anything too special, but strange. I wasn't sure how I was supposed to feel. 'Relax. I will come back in a while. Your brain will work out what to do. Then you need to learn what to do with that. You will be exhausted.' He left me. He was right I did feel tired. If I closed my eyes, I could see words hanging in the dark, behind my eyelids. I remember drifting off.

"Dr Li came back and woke me. I had no idea of the time, or what was happening. He smiled at me, 'See, I told you it would make you sleepy. I have got you a taxi. You go back to your hotel. Relax and sleep for a week. You will work it out. Once you have managed to get on the Internet, email me. Yes?' I was so dopey and confused, I agreed. He put a surgical pad over the area on the back of my head. I put a loose hat over it all. He helped me out of the clinic and bundled me into the taxi. It knew where to go. I must have drifted off in the cab; I woke outside the hotel. The concierge was shaking my arm to wake me. I went up to my room and slept for two days straight. I never saw Dr Li again. I was supposed to go back and see him a week later. But of course, I never did, did I? I received a message not to come back. He was gone. Thanks to you, Godwin."

We could have dealt with Lia better. But you have to understand that she was an excellent opportunity for us. The Enhancers, as we called them, were dangerous. They could do things natural people could not. Lia was a tool for us to expose that. She could also help us find out the truth of their agenda too.

We waited for Lia back at the hotel and watched. She did not leave her room for four or five days. Then one day, she left the hotel. She had got into a taxi and was gone! We thought we had lost her. We were saved by Susan, my colleague, having the speed of mind to ask the concierge where Lia went. She told him we were her friends and were supposed to meet her, but her phone must be switched off, or didn't work in China. Luckily, the concierge went for Susan's story. He told us that she had gone to a bar he'd recommended. She could be so convincing and friendly. We jumped in a taxi and gave the vehicle our destination.

It was one of those hipster beer bars. Lia told me that she was very much a craft beer fan. She was missing home, so she had gone there on the concierge's recommendation. When we got there, I went into the back room conservatory area with Chris and left Susan to draw Lia out. We had more luck, apart from the serving staff, we four were the only people in the bar that afternoon. The place was dead. Lia sat next to a roaring fireplace that threw out heat into the room. Susan went over to her. She told Lia that her work colleagues were in the back, and asked whether she wanted to join us, given how she was alone. She did. I assumed it was because Lia was somehow desperate for company, but she denied that. She said, "No, I was just bored, I'd been in the hotel for, like, days, and Susan seemed a fun person. Friendly." So, Susan led her through. We all sat at the table under the heat lamps. We told her we were from a large technology company. We were in town trying to win some business. O course, we said, we couldn't tell her anything about it due to non-disclosure agreements and so on. She was animated and intrigued.

The beer helped too; as she relaxed, we were able to encourage her to confide in us. We also let slip information about our business deal, all hush, hush, of course - and purely invented. Then, as if an imaginary line was crossed, she told us everything. She told us why she was in Shanghai, what she had done, everything. She told us too of her loneliness, of her inability to connect to people, of having nothing to belong to. Before we knew it, she was sobbing. We consoled her and told her we could help. Lia told me, later, "The beer was *much* stronger than it said on the menu, aye. I'd gone through a lot. I'm, like, in China, with a thing attached to my head, alone. Hey, you try not getting gloomy with all that going on. Get drunk, and you'd sob too. Don't judge."

Over the course of the next week, we recruited her to our cause. We gave her a challenge. She was to learn how to better use her new *Gate* by taking it on. I told her, 'think of it like a training course, where the output was a working prototype or proof of concept.' She could help us with our business mission. If she was successful, she could expect a decent payment, to make it worth her while. We told her that we were aware of a company that was developing an integration solution for the *Gate*. This would enable the *Gate* to allow a means of sight and hearing, even touch in patients. It was untested, but they were evaluating some trial. We set Lia to hack into *Bright Futures Cybernetics* and publish their research online.
