
# Chapter 2

<span class="firstLetter">W</span>ELLINGTON IS A SMALL CITY. You can walk from one side of the central business district to the other easily in under thirty minutes. My hotel was towards the sports stadium at the northern end and as it was a beautiful day, I decided to walk along the seafront in the sun to where I was to meet Lia at the far end. The whole way along was a wide pedestrianised path where people walked, ran and cycled by my side. To my left, the sea was calm, clear and blue. Cafes and restaurants were full with those enjoying the wide views across the harbour and the hills and mountains beyond. It was a beautiful place, dotted with art and boutique shops. I strolled past old dock cranes and wharfs that now housed galleries and eateries. After a time, I reached the National Museum, *Te Papa*. Young kids, stripped to their underwear, were diving off a high platform into the water and drawing a crowd, their brown bodies glistening, their smiles white and clean. I could have wandered or sat around there all day.

Instead, I followed my phone and went up a broad street that started at the museum, away from the sea and vibrant life, across wide roads of traffic and past shops and offices that were worn and tatty. I could see Lia Cox stood on a corner a couple of blocks up. She was tall, very thin and pale and wore a short flowery dress with heavy army boots. Her arms were both sleeved with intricate tattoos. "I know somewhere quiet. It has good beer too," Lia said when I reached her. We walked along the street together and briefly back towards the sea, but then turned under a grubby archway and down some stairs into a basement bar. It was dark and dingy there. The air was stale and smelled of beer and bodies, and loud music blared out drowning our words. Small groups of students huddled in corners and nooks, whispering and giggling over their drinks. I ordered a couple of beers that Lia recommended, and we took them and went and sat in a back room, even dingier than the main bar area. It was quieter there, the music from the main bar area spilling in at a low volume. A young couple sat at the far end and tangled in each others awkward grasps oblivious of us. Lia and I sat for a while, not speaking, drinking our beer. "Same again?" she asked me. I looked down and saw she had drained hers. I emptied my glass too and said, "I'll get it." The beer was strong, and I could already feel its effects, a slight swirl to my mind, so I asked the barman for something not so potent. "This is a good session ale," the barman said and pointed at a beer tap with a lurid label, the text of which was so elaborate I couldn't read the name of it. I asked for two anyway and he poured them I paid and carried them back through to where Lia was sat. She was tapping away on her phone, "No signal down here, I always forget," she said, and slid the phone into the small fabric bag she had with her. I handed her the beer. "Thanks," she said. There was a tension between us. I felt I needed to get through to her and break down the barriers.

I said to Lia, "Dr Li is back, by the way. He resurfaced about six months ago. Not sure what happened to him. Why don't you should go see him, and finish what you started." I'm not sure why I said that to her, as soon as I said it I felt stupid. It was true, Li had come back on the scene, Gray had told me. I wasn't lying either when I said I didn't know what had happened to him, exactly. The last I knew was that he went off the radar after we'd made the call to the local authorities in Shanghai. I didn't know what happened to him after that. Still, it wasn't a wise topic to bring up with Lia, she was probably going to be still upset about it. So, Lia continued her silence. She was brooding over what I said and looked sullen. She swilled her beer back, finishing the pint when I'd only drunk an inch out of mine. "This was rubbish," she waved the empty beer glass at me. "Weak as. Why d'you buy it? Wanna 'nother?" I shook my head. She got up, and slung her bag over her shoulder and, at that point, I wasn't sure whether she'd return or not. 

Lia was away a long time, and the couple who had been clung to each other at the far end of the room left, leaving me alone. Time slowed down; I kept flashing my phone on to watch it almost stand still. I was about to go and check where she'd gone, when she returned with another beer in her hand. 
    "That ship has sailed," Lia said as she sat down. I looked puzzled, my face asking the question. "Going to see Dr Li, I mean," she said. "What was that, two years ago? Anyway, as I understand it, all he'd do is connect to me. The direct connection thing. I've done that. It's no big deal. Well, it is, but once the drama is over, it's the same as. People are still people." 
    "Sorry, Lia, I don't follow you. What do you mean, 'once the drama is over, it's the same?'" I asked, genuinely confused at what she was saying. She sat down and seemed to relax - the tension across her face had lessened and she no longer looked as if she was going to explode at any moment.
    "Look, connecting to someone is amazing, at first," Lia explained. "In fact, it feels like when something has gone wrong, you know, like that shock when your system dumps out adrenalin and thumps it through your body. You feel shaky and awake, hyper-alert and your brain seems to be going much faster than it ever has. And you would, someone else's brain is sending yours vast amounts of data in a format that is native to you. Your mind doesn't need to process anything; there is no need for translation or sorting. It is an instant insertion of feeling, thought and information, all wrapped together. It comes at you in one big hit.
    "But, this feeling rushes out so you cannot reach it," she said. "What I mean is, the information shared doesn't stay, it washes in, then out of your mind, like the waves on a beach. That must be the natural way of dealing with the vast amounts of data we process each moment, I guess. That constant stream that flows into our brains, even without a *Gate*," her finger jabbed at the back of her head. "The images our eyes see; the sounds our ears hear; the smells we breathe; the tastes we ingest; the sensations of touch, of hot or cold, of weight, of wind. A ceaseless deluge floods our brains each second. And remarkably, out brains make sense of it all, without a conscious thought. The brain translates the information, sorts it, even augments it where it is lacking, and then stores what it thinks it needs. And then it discards what information left.
    "After a while, you learn how to keep what you need from the connection. It's tiring work - God, so tiring. I mean, it leaves your whole body drained, like every cell is fatigued. I found the only way I could cope was to turn off the *Gate* connection and sleep. Sometimes, I'd sleep for days at a time. I suppose that my brain was just rewiring itself, I don't know.

"But, once all that is over, once the initial wave of sensation subsides, all that is left is a connection with a person. And people are still people, right? Regardless of what the likes of Andrews say. No amount of gadgets changes that. God, they are such a let-down, it's no different normal life. People I mean, letting you down, tiring you out. No, in fact, it is worse, 'cause they think, you know, people like Andrews, they are like supermen or something. And I'm like, yeah, sure, because you've got a great Internet connection makes you better. Please! They're idiots." Lia Cox laughed, she was bitter, and she shook her head. "We have created this amazing technology, so everyone says - we can now connect to each other in ways no one can grasp - and you know what? I'm still lonely. I haven't got anyone; you know what I'm saying?" 
    I nodded, I wanted her to continue and keep her story flowing out. "You connected with Rob Andrews and his mob though, yes?" 
    Lia stared at me. "You know that, Charles. You sent me there." 
    "Sorry, I didn't know the nature of how you, hmm, interacted, Lia. I've only recently learned of this whole brain to brain thing. Sorry, you had a bad experience, I know - it was because *they* were idiots." I wanted to help her. I wondered, maybe, if she could just talk it through, it would make more sense, you know, things would be clearer to her? She was hard work though, so I thought if I stayed quiet the pressure of the silence would crack her, and she would open up like she had in that bar in Shanghai. It worked, she spoke, and it all began to come tumbling out.
    "*The Crackpots*, that's what I called them, Andrews' lot," Lia explained. "After Susan had given me their details, I'd followed them down the rabbit hole - red pill, blue pill, whatever. There were five of them. They did the corporate website and Intranet for *Bright Futures*. They were nobodies. I told you guys that, but you thought you knew better. They weren't *Bright Futures*; they were a bunch of web monkeys, not techs involved with the *Gates* and biotech. They weren't anything special. It's just funny now when you think about it." 
    "Why?" I asked. 
    "Well, you and your guys were convinced these guys were the real *Bright Futures*. To you, they were the sinister reality of transhumanism. 'Evil transhumans'," she signalled those words with air-quotes on each hand and laughed. "Your words, Charles, as I recall. So, anyway, as I said, Susan had given me the details of these guys in California and I message them and tell them I have a *Gate* and that I am into to the whole thing, and before I know it I'm on a flight to San Francisco for a job interview. No, not an interview, because there was none of that; no, it was an invitation - I was simply given the job. But, once I had the job, I found I had also joined a congregation, it was part of the deal. I was then in this group who had to listen to the sermons Andrews gave. He told us that we were now part of the future of humanity. He would go on about how those without a connection - those not like us, without the metal parts - were done for; 'dinosaurs' he called them, and they were going to be extinct. Andrews was telling us all this and his cronies, his acolytes, were silent. The whole situation was very bizarre. The five of us would sit around like that, listening to him telling us how it was all going to be: the future. Then in the morning, we'd all go to work as if nothing happened. At work it was just normal, you know software stuff - we'd deal with bugs and code releases, and the usual shit that any web developer would do. We'd have team meetings, task lists, code sprints, and so on, you know. Andrews was a pretty good team lead and dev too - he was a decent coder. He worked hard, in fact, he would put in the big hours fixing the crappy code the rest of the team produced. The others were, to be blunt, awful. And they could be, it was a cushy job; I mean it was a couple of websites and an Intranet; you don't need six people for that; we were all paid well too, well above standard market rates. *Bright Futures* was awash with money. Looking back, it didn't make sense - where did they get all that money from?

"After a while, I got used to it all. To the weirdness of Andrews' sermons, and being part of the crazy gang who followed him. Hey, I was a kid from New Zealand in San Francisco, had a good job that had fallen in my lap. It was cool. I was cool. I kind of forgot about you and Susan. I slipped back into my life. Sure, it was crazier than when I was here, but the job was pretty much the same. My evenings were similar, drinking in bars like this," and she indicated the basement bar we were sat in and she looked bright and energised. "Then after work one day, about three months after I'd started, I was talking to Doug, another member of the team, and he asked me out for a beer. I thought he was okay, I guess; he was a terrible developer, though and he was a complete devotee to the *Church of Andrews*, but he was always nice to me, so I went out with him. After a while, he was getting a bit weird. I thought he was cracking onto me, going on about, 'really connecting', 'had I ever done it?' That kind of thing. Now, listen, I'm a girl who was working in tech, they are a lot of geeks, so the idea that a man in his, say, late-twenties, would be asking questions that you'd ask in your mid-teens... Well, I thought he thought I was a virgin. So I played along. I said no, I hadn't 'done it'. It was funny. It seemed to drive him nuts!" Lia pushed her empty glass towards me. "Your round, Mr Godwin."

"Anyway," Lia continued, with a full glass before her. "Doug tells Andrews. And he starts getting all creepy like he's grooming me, or something. Then one evening, he says, 'Lia, we're going to have to pop your cherry.' I went nuts. I told him, that'd had been popped when I was fifteen - okay, I was rubbing it in a bit, but I was pushing them off, you know. But, they were all like dogs with bones and were going on about *connecting*. I was scared for a bit, I was. See, I thought they were about to invite me to some geek orgy or something; I figured they were talking about *sex*! Then I got it. They were talking about brain to brain connection. See, I didn't know about it then, *because of what you did to Dr Li, I'm guessing!* Lia stopped for a moment, and glared at me from under her neat eyebrows. 

"So there you go. Those five guys are the sum of my experience. And after the initial rush, which does something to you, if you get my drift," Lia looked at me from under her brows again, that time with a different expression. "After *that* subsided, I soon realised that all I was left with was just a more intense version of Andrews verbal sermons. In fact, I understood why the others were so often silent. Andrews was like a loud radio! He never shut up. He broadcast his ravings all the time. The only way you could get any peace was by switching the *Gate* connection off. The funny thing was, he didn't even notice when you did." \
    "Push, pull," I interrupted. \
    "What?" 
    "Someone I know called that type of connection, 'push, pull'. One of you pushes and the other pulls. It's not sharing, that's two-way; it's like on the Internet when someone posts something. They push it out there, I pull to, say my phone, and I read it. But, if the poster is a big shot like Andrews thought he was, it's one-way - there's nothing that I could share back that would be of any interest to the likes of him. There is no conversation."
    "I get it," Lia said. "Oh, I get it. No one listens."

Lia fell quiet again. She rotated her beer glass back and forth, and stared into the bottom of it, waiting, as if it would give her some answer to it all. At that moment I realised, she was little different to Andrews. She was what Gray called a 'wannabe', those who liked the idea of things rather the living the reality. For the likes of Lia, the idea of being connected was distinct from what it was really like because they never gave themselves to others, they never worked at it. They were trapped inside their bubbles, bouncing off those of others, they never actually connected to people. Don't get me wrong, Lia wasn't a bad person, nor was she the narcissist Andrews was, but, she was a user like him. She felt entitled; she felt that everyone owed her something, that her failures with people were all due to their lack, not hers. No amount of technology could fix that.