
# Chapter 3
WE WERE MAKING REAL PROGRESS. Everything was going well for us at the *Human Association*. We had Lia embedded at *Bright Futures*. We were influencing social media and the general news outlets. Our stories were spreading, telling the public of the threat that transhumanism brought to our way of life. Given the push we had from Lia's information, we believed we had real momentum. Then came Sally Taylor. She looked, at first, like another opportunity for the *Human Association*. But in fact, our problems started with her. All the progress we had made was thrown back by that unfortunate ten-year-old girl. 

Sally's story is a remarkable tale of persistence. Though faced with an insurmountable wall of tragic evidence, those who loved her clung to a delicate hope. They nurtured it until, over time, it grew into a monumental thing that surmounted any obstacle. While many later felt an ethical line was crossed by those close to her, you have to ask yourself, what would you have done differently to save a child's life? 

Melvin Taylor was Sally Taylor's grandfather. He lived then on a street that was the epitome of comfortable suburban living in Richmond, Surrey. This road was lined, nose to tail, on either side, with shiny cars. It made the street feel narrow and tight. The pavement beside was wide, and plane trees grew at even intervals along it, their mottled limbs stretched out and jostled one another until they were cut back to crude stumps. Melvin's home was a clean-bricked, three-story townhouse that stood mid-way along the street and set back from it with a neat, cobbled parking area out front. It had an inviting yellow light that spilt from the windows, brightening the grey day I first visited.

Inside was warm. Thick, colourful rugs covered the bare wooden flooring. And on one, Melvin told me, Sally, then ten-years-old had sat cross-legged, her hands supporting her head, her elbows on her knees. 

- "We were playing chess, Charles," he remembered, "and Sally, so bright and quick, always used to taunt me: 'It's your go, Grandad. You're sooo slow,' she'd say."
- Melvin had played this memory over and over so that he could recall every word and gesture of that day their life had changed.
- "I remember Sally sighing, impatient," he told me, "'So slow. It will be dark, and you said we were going to the park.' I slid my pawn one space forwards. 'There,' I said. I hung my hand for a moment over the piece, uncertain that it would be a wise move. 'All that thinking for that!' Sally giggled, then she leant acutely from the hips, snatched up my hesitant pawn with one hand and slid her bishop onto its place with the other. 'Check!' She laughed. I remember kidding her, 'Ahh, now I have you.' You know, putting on this frown, a mock frown of deep thought. I was losing again, so I told her, 'To save your embarrassment, let's go to the park now. We can finish this game when we get back.' She teased me back, 'Sure, grandad, because I am *so* going to lose. Let's go.' I remember just how she quickly lifted herself on the spot, her legs elegantly unfolding as she rose. And how she stretched and dashed off down the corridor, her dark hair bouncing down her back. It is still all so vivid, even the way I had levered myself up into a seated position. How I awkwardly picked up the chess board and placed it on the coffee table. How I had pushed up on one knee, and how I had creaked myself upright. And above all, how I had followed her happily, out into the cold."

## *

<!-- How do I elegantly transition to Melvin speaking? Lia was easy, but this is more integral, with a number of dropping in and out -->

"We had wrapped up warm that day, with coats and scarves, hats and gloves that she often lost. Along my street was a narrow alleyway, Sally and I used it as a shortcut to the park road beyond. A cold wind sped through as walked down it, Sally chatting and I half-listening so any questions she threw out could be answered, and I would avoid the chastisement for not paying her my full attention. I had this silly smile on my face all the way. I watched her skip and twist. I had energy just from her being at my side. Oh, how I wish I could go there again and take Sally home, back into the warm.

"After some time," Melvin continued, "the alleyway ended. The street beyond was closed at one end, not with houses, but a high, red-brick wall. Naked trees pressed in there, towards a large black iron gate that gave entry to the park beyond. We opened it and went in," he told me. "The gate clanged behind us, and I looked back, it made such a sound. Sally ran off, jumping and swirling, her cheeks pink in the cold air, as I crunched along the gravel path after her. Under the damp trees, I could see my breath and icy drops fell on me. It was cold. I puffed my way up the zigzagging path, up the park rise, following as she ran towards the shiny silver, winter's sky of that day. *The* day.

At the top of the rise, Sally and I stopped. I was out of breath and sat on the bench there. I remember the view, back across the city, and the how the air was clear, and sprawl of London stretched out before us in jumbled rows of rooftops. I said to her, 'Look at all those people, Sally!' She was stood behind me on the grass bank, her shoes wet and muddy. She was quiet then, for the first time that day. 'A lot of people, Sally, all chatting on, making noise, like you' I teased her. I knew she always bit at the bait of this comment, but not that time. Sally was still, staring towards something distant, her face pale, her eyes glassy. 'You okay, chicken?' I asked. And I knew she was not. 'Can we go, I don't feel so good,' she said. I felt my heart jump. I wanted to get her back in the warm and worried that her mother, Joan, would be mad for letting her get so cold. I stood up from the bench. As I did so, Sally slowly fell, and the knees of her woollen tights sank into the soft grass. I caught her and gripped her arms and lifted her back onto her feet. Her face was drained, and her eyes had sunk into their sockets. 'I'm okay, Grandad, I'm just cold. Let's go,' she said, her voice all dreamy and quiet.

"We walked back down the gravel path, and I held Sally's hand gently as we went. Her hand was cold; her gloves were gone. But, I did not hold it hard enough, as when we approached the gate again she stumbled and fell once more. She slipped from my grasp and crashed hard on her face. I can clearly hear the sound the gravel crunching into her cheek, even now. I lifted her up again, and she slumped over my shoulder, my arms gripped beneath her legs. She was a big girl for ten; she was so tall. But you know what? I never noticed her weight as I carried her back to the house in my arms, I was so worried. I fled back. I remember nothing of it, that trip home.

"Back at the house, Sally brightened, chatting again, warming up. I made her take off her muddy tights and put on warm pyjamas bottoms. I cleaned her face and put cream on the cuts the gravel had made. I made her hot chocolate. She drank it and looked better, colour came back into her cheeks and her eyes were clear again. My anxiety ebbed. I asked her, 'Wanna finish the game? I feel bad though, as I'm going to beat you.' Sally was defiant, as always, 'Yeah, right. When did you last win a game, when I was like, what, eight?" She lifted the board back onto the floor. She plopped down cross-legged in her usual manner, except she tilted awkwardly. I can see it now, her hand going forward and landing in the middle of the board, making the chess pieces tumble. And I just stood there, staring at her. I didn't know what to do. What was wrong? She started to cry. She tried to pick the pieces up, but somehow her hands fumbled them, and she knocked the remaining pieces across the board.

"As that scene plays in my mind, my heart always sinks to my stomach," Melvin said. "I dropped to my knees next to her and held her, pulling her into me, tight. 'It's okay; it's okay. You've got cold, and your body is playing up. I've got you, Grandad's got you.' And she leant into me and I enveloped her with my arms. Over and over, I whispered to her, 'Grandad's got you, Grandad's got you.' But I hadn't, had I? She was sick; we know that now. Something was very wrong with Sally, something very rare and dangerous.

"God, it happened so quickly. It were as if at each minute's passing she diminished. It was fast, so fast. Mid-afternoon, she was skipping up the path in the park. Within five hours she was in hospital. By that time, she could no longer walk without assistance. The doctors didn't know what was wrong. They still don't; they are clueless. The poor child was terrified at what was happening to her. By the time Joan, Sally's mother, arrived at the hospital, she was finding it hard to hold things with her hands. Her speech was not right; she was mispronouncing her words. Joan was furious. She was shouting at the doctors, and their doubt fuelled her rage. To her, they weren't doing anything. To her, the change to Sally was abrupt; she had not seen the change, as fast as it was. The doctor's then told us they wanted to move her. They wanted to send her to the National Hospital For Neurology and Neurosurgery, at Queen's Square. They informed us they thought her condition was neurological, that there was a problem with her brain. Joan was demanding what was wrong with Sally. Her child was dying, and she was lashing out, throwing insults at the people who were trying to save her daughter's life. I got in the ambulance with Sally, her mother still raving at the doctors. Joan was by then in total panic. But, she was not helping things, just making them worse. Sally was crying and crying, frightened at her mother's behaviour. So, I went with Sally and left Joan behind. I was afraid too. The road was wet and dark, but we roared towards the city with lights and sirens parting the traffic, paring it back to reveal a bare, black ribbon of asphalt beneath that ran into the night. 

"By the time we got to Queens Square, Sally was immobile, and her speech was slurred and barely coherent. As she was brought in, she had a convulsion. She frothed at the mouth, her legs and arms thrashed about. It was midnight. The medical team rushed her into the ICU, and she went into cardiac arrest. She was dying, right there in front of me. Joan arrived. She shouted for her child. Her voice was torn and ragged. She shrieked her terror at everyone near. It was chaos. I heard heard my daughter first, then saw her outside the ICU. She was physically wrestling with two nurses out in the corridor. I could see it all through the glass door pane. They were on the floor, grappling like drunks outside a cheap bar. The nurses pinned her down, restraining her. She made animal noises as she struggled, not human, she grunted, her mouth and eyes wet and wide. All the while, the medical team in the ICU worked on. It was surreal. The madness in the corridor. The alarms and beeps inside the room. With quiet, calm words and actions they stabilised Sally. They just worked through the noise, oblivious. They put her on a ventilator and drove her heart artificially. We sucked air into our lungs and the sighs and fatigue washed over us and diluted our fear. Joan was demolished, the fury was let out, and she was left deflated. She slumped on a chair in the hallway, alone. The knees of her stockings were ripped. There was a bright drop of blood on the front of her white blouse. Her eyes were like wet soot with make up all clumped and streaked. I sat in the ICU, next to the corpse-like form of my granddaughter. I held her hand. She had slipped away from me and left no external sign of life. There was nothing of the bright young girl she was only hours earlier there in that room. But, somehow, I don't know how, even then, I *knew* she wasn't dead. I *knew* it.

"Life then became suspended. For the next week, I lived at the hospital, and mostly in that room, with Sally. In that room, with it's beeping and flashing lights. I was numb. The doctors were damning in their prognosis; there was no visible sign of life. Then Sally's heart resumed and beat its rhythm unaided. It was the faintest of hopes. The doctors took scans of her brain, but they showed 'nothing of note', they said, nor could they get any reaction to physical stimuli. I was stubborn regardless. I said to them that maybe it happened so fast that her body had just shut down. I said that maybe she just needed time. I felt the pressure of being alone, of being the only one holding a point of view. There was a consensus forming that Sally was beyond hope. Everyone felt, but did not explicitly say, that there was only one course of action. I was not having it; she needed more time, I said. I forbade any discussion of switching off life-support. I barely moved from the ICU. I was like a watchdog, looking over her, daring anyone to harm her.

"Joan became increasingly distant and brooding, the fragile understanding we had was cracking. Ten days after Sally had fallen sick, I found my daughter with her. I had gone for a shower and some food - I was exhausted. Joan was in the ICU when I returned. She had dressed Sally in new bed clothes and brushed her hair; she had made her look nice. When I came in, she was speaking to Sally, holding her hand. As she softly spoke, I realised she was saying goodbye. I felt a darkness fall over me and I stormed out desperate, trying to think of a way to prevent the inevitable. I called a legal friend of mine. I poured out my feeling and hurt; I needed to ensure that nothing was done without my say so, I told him. Joan wanted the life-support turned off, 'so she could mourn,' I informed him when he arrived at the hospital. I just couldn't fathom the idea. We had to get Joan away from the hospital, for a while at least. Interestingly, her crazed incident in the corridor had become useful to me then, and my friend convinced the police to look into the matter. They asked her to leave the hospital while they investigated further and with her gone, I went to work on the medical staff. The doctors were patient with me; I'll give them that. They pitied me, I suppose, they had seen it many times before - relatives clinging to hope. I bored into them and tried to dig out anything of value. But, to a person, the doctors there could never give me any hope of improvement. Sally's life balanced on a knife edge. The doctors at the hospital had decided her fate. Joan had given up and was in mourning. The overwhelming view was there was no hope left. I was the only voice left opposing it all, holding it all up - termination. My view was that even if there were only the faintest glimmer of a chance, it was better to wait. I refused to be rushed into any decision. There was no harm in waiting, I said. But the pressure was mounting. God, it was unbearable."
