
# Chapter 4
WITHOUT DOUBT, those days with Melvin Taylor were amongst the most emotional of my life. I am sure I can only fail to convey the turmoil that he and Sally's mother, Joan, had lived through. Even as I recall these meetings and the frank monologues that Melvin gave, I find myself carrying shy of the real weight that burdened the man; I know I shrank from him emotionally as he unfolded his bleak tale. It was too much for any person.

Sally's story was a remarkable tale of persistence. Though faced with a wall of tragic evidence, those who loved her clung to a delicate hope that, over time, grew into a monumental thing that surmounted any obstacle. While many later felt an ethical line was crossed by those close to her, you have to ask yourself, what would you have done differently to save a child's life? 

I know that question changed my viewpoint and made me see as Melvin did, and seeing through his eyes I understood why he did what he did. I know I would have been against him, back then, there in that hospital, where hope had dimmed to no more than a glimmer in the dark. I would have let Sally die if I were to be truthful. It would have seemed the most humane thing to have done at the time. Only Melvin stood against the consensus as to her fate.

Melvin Taylor was a tall man. I always thought that being tall at an old age was unexpected; it seemed to me a rare thing. Though in his mid-seventies, he was sprightly, slim and fit, and had that indescribable energy some people had, which ignited action in others -- no one would lounge about in his company. However, when Melvin spoke of these times, of Sally's illness, he seemed to reduce in stature, and that spark of intensity dimmed as if the story was hollowing him out, and each word of it was carrying a terrible cost to him. Nonetheless, each time I saw him he would continue, unfolding more and more to me, both the hopes and the despair until I could see the extent to which he had been tortured by it all. 

Most often, we would sit in his living room, where pictures of a growing Sally would look down on us as we spoke of her. I sat opposite him on a deep leather sofa and sank into it while he went further into the detail of what happened to him and how it all changed.

## *

"I am Sally's Grandfather. Melvin Taylor, it's good to meet you." I remember, standing there like a foolish boy, my hand stuck out to defend my awkwardness. Two weeks after Sally was admitted, Raphaella DiCosta arrived at the hospital. She looked like an old-style Hollywood movie star, and she came through the place like a wind. Her glamorous charm and persuasiveness changed the air; in fact, she changed everything. Raphaella was a very easy person to like. She had that southern belle accent and a calm, low tone. When things got tense, and most situations were tense then, she would smile, and you could feel the atmosphere in the room lighten, and everyone relax a little. It was a fantastic talent. If I still had my business, I would have tried to hire that woman. Instead, I came to love her.

Raphaella asked me for access to Sally, to conduct some tests and assess her condition, and I agreed without hesitation. I was desperate for an ally, for anyone to be on my side. She even managed to convince Joan it was a good idea. "It was the last throw of the dice," she told her, "what harm could it do?" Raphaella's team reviewed the data and evaluated Sally's physical health. They were thorough. Raphaella used her charm to ensure the local medical team stayed engaged and responsive. Her team were respectful of the work done at the hospital, and they made their respect known. But they had unique experience the local team lacked. They had been involved in research and studies that showed a very different view of locked-in patients, compared to the thinking before that time. In their opinion, while Sally was very sick and her activity levels hard to measure, she was very much alive. This was great news, but it left me angry. I took the *Bright Futures* team's carefully delivered results as too soft -- a medical dressing placed over a sore of professional malpractice. These were experts in their field, how could they not know of the work being done? Did they not read the studies and the papers on the numerous cases of patients, like Sally, who were unresponsive, but later pulled through? Raphaella gave me the slap I needed and brought me back to my senses. 

- "Sally is at the very limit of medical knowledge, and there are so many uncertainties and so many unknowns, Melvin," she told me in front of the medical teams. Raphaella wanted to bring everyone together, not divide them. As she put it to me later when we were alone, 
- "How will berating anyone help Sally? She needs everyone on her side right now. We all need to pull together." Her words were firm but soothing, and as my anger cooled, the iciness of the local doctors thawed.

Of course, not everyone was on the same side. There were agendas, some of which I still cannot get a grip on. Raphaella too was often secretive. She would table medical meetings, and I had no idea what went on in these sessions. But, however furtive her behaviour, my trust in her remained complete.

After a time, she put detailed a battery of further tests on Sally. This time, there was to be no stone left unturned. If the plan was agreed, the schedule for the tests detailed them to last between five and eight hours. She came to me that evening at my house -- I needed to get out of the hospital for a while and take a shower, get fresh clothes and just have a change of scenery. I'd just got out of the shower when the doorbell went. I let Raphaella in; water was still dripping off my hair. As soon as the door was closed, she came close to me.

- "I have a plan, Melvin," she said, in almost a whisper. "It may save Sally's life. If you agree, we will conduct surgery tomorrow during the proposed tests." It was so direct that it took me aback. 
- I asked her, "Surgery to do what, exactly?" 
- She paused for a moment, then said, "To make you understand, I first need you to meet someone." She pulled out her phone and spoke into it. "Please, come in Gray, come and meet Melvin." Raphaella opened the door. There stood a young man -- no, an attractive woman dressed as a young man. She smiled at me and came in. 
- "Melvin, we don't have much time. Sally does not have much time. Gray, please show him."

Gray turned her head. At the back was a short ponytail, she pulled it out and parted the hair. There, hidden, was a neat silver-grey metal circle with a small domed insert, about an inch across at most. In the centre, a tiny blue light pulsed. Gray tied her hair back up. We all went through and sat down in the living room. I listened to what Gray had to say.  

- "This," she pointed to her ponytail, "is a *Brain-Computer-Interface*, or BCI, some people call it a *Gate*, there are many words for it. Anyway, it is implanted directly into my brain. Through it, I can connect directly to the Internet and others with a similar device. We believe that such a device will help Sally, she will be able to communicate with you through it, and you with her. She is locked-in, her body's senses have shut everything out, this device allows her a means of getting through to the world again."

I was knocked back, to be honest. I fell back onto the sofa and blew all the air from my lungs, my mind racing at the possibilities and problems. I had read something about it, years ago, they had managed to reach patients who were thought brain dead. They weren't, and their families had been able to communicate with them again through such a device. I looked at Gray; I'd have never thought that someone as healthy as she looked would have such a thing implanted in her brain. My thoughts, though, were interrupted. Raphaella was pressing me.

- "We need your approval to proceed, Melvin. The medical risks are known and manageable: we have done this a number of times," she assured me. 
- I felt trapped and pressured, but what else could I do? Without some means of connecting to her, Sally was dead to the world. Questions tumbled out. I was confused and worried. "What can she do with it? If she has the surgery, that is. Are you confident it will work?"
- "I can't say, Melvin. We are confident that the surgery will go well, as much as we can be. But if Sally will be helped by it... I'm sorry, we're in the dark on that. We think so; we hope so. It has worked with other patients, as I said, those have improved, both physically and mentally. It's got to be worth the role of the dice though, no? We are out of traditional options here. Gray has had the device for a number of years now, without any problems, haven't you?"
- Gray nodded. "There is a whole new world out there, Mr Taylor, one that you know nothing of. I am part of that world, and it is amazing. Sally will have a chance to be part of it too."
- "I know this is a shock and it may even sound crazy," Raphaella interrupted, "but right now we don't have the time to go into the philosophy. Will you agree to the surgery? We've only got a few hours to get everything in place."

So, I agreed. I had to. 

Knowing that we are awake or asleep, is not something we often struggle with. Occasionally though, we are tricked by the vividness of our dreams, and they seem, for a moment, real. But, soon enough the information pouring through our senses from the world outside our bodies reveals the truth, and we wake. Not for Sally. When she first woke in that dark place, all she felt were terrifying twitching, itching, and whispering glimmers -- all that remained of the world locked outside. Over time, these ghostly sensations faded and then she was left with nothing -- no pain, no pleasure, no hunger, no thirst -- just a blankness. So it was that her dreams became reality to her. The trick that we dismiss so easily became the refuge for her sanity. Awake was mere dark nothingness; asleep was vivid and alive.

Of course, we didn't know any of this at the time, but the doctors at the hospital felt something was wrong; they felt that Sally's mind was shutting down and she no longer had any conscious periods at all. 

- "I am sorry," they would tell me. "Things are not looking good. We are struggling to tell now whether she is asleep or awake. In fact, we think that the active periods we can see in the scans are not when she is awake at all, but when she is asleep. We fear she is slipping away now. I'm sorry," they said. 
- And I would say, "I understand." But, in fact, I wasn't listening anymore. I already knew the truth, that she was slipping away, I could feel it. That's why, when Raphaella DiCosta came to me, I said yes. I didn't hesitate. Christ, if the child died during the operation, well, that would have been better than her slow, maddening demise in the dark. I didn't care what Joan said, or anyone else. Sally needed some *hope*!

Looking back, I don't know why I never told Joan. She would have said no, of course. I think it was because she already thought Sally was dead. She would have thought, "What was the point?" So, we didn't talk about it. Not in any detail, that is. We just danced around the topic. She hated Raphaella too, and any conversations about Sally that included Raphaella often ended in Joan screaming the place down. So, we went behind her back.

The five to eight hours scheduled for the tests was more than enough time to complete the surgery, Raphaella told me, and it would be done without Joan's consent. We'd deal with the fallout afterwards. Of course, there was a risk to us, Raphaella warned me that we were possibly outside the law, but I didn't care as long as Sally received help, that something was being done.

When we returned to the hospital, Raphaella called the medical teams together and ran through the plan for the tests. Given time zone differences between London and California, the tests were going to start late evening, so the remote team could adequately prepare and feedback any findings they had. The hospital medical team wasn't needed -- they had day jobs and would better benefit from some sleep and be ready for the handover in the morning, she told them. Raphaella made it all sound so innocuous, but I remember my heart hammering as she ran through it all; I was shaking. At my cue, I announced I wanted to be present, and I remember Joan giving me what looked like a dirty look. 

The funny thing is, that even now when I relive that moment, it still makes me shake. What we did was a huge gamble, and it carried so much personal risk to all of us.

That night I went to watch the operation. I scrubbed up and put on the theatre gowns I was given. I felt in the way. I'm not a medical man, and a lot of what happened wasn't clear to me. I was nervous, waiting, then they wheeled Sally into the MRI room, with all her paraphernalia. They parked a partition outside so no one could see through the door. It was getting late, and the hospital was quiet, but they took no chances. They then wheeled in operating materials and got right into it. I didn't have the best view. I stood at the back, and the room was cramped, but I could see some of it, just not the detailed stuff, the up-close work the surgeons did. A lot was going on, and I couldn't take it all in. They first turned Sally on her side and covered her, leaving only the back of her head exposed. One of the team then clipped away her hair in a wide circle, about a hand's width in diameter. The area was shaved to the skin and painted with iodine, or something similar. I couldn't see the next bit; the surgeon was in the way. I could see at one point a tool being used; it looked like something you'd have in a woodworking shop. The surgeon stood back, and I could see an area of Sally's yellowish-pink brain, there in the open, a neat hole revealed it. Then, another person took over. Their task took the longest time, and I couldn't see very much as the surgeon was bent over too close to Sally's head. Many items passed to and fro. When that surgeon had finished their task, I could see the skull was back in place with a circular metal ring attached at the centre of the shaved area. The first surgeon then returned to work for a while, and then it was complete. The skin had been pulled back up to the ring, and it was all stitched up. It looked neat work, from where I stood. The second doctor then cleaned the area and placed a small domed object into the ring. A tiny blue light flashed. They turned Sally onto her back, resting her head on a cradle, so it was supported, but so that the *Gate* was not touching anything. They then rolled Sally out of the room and back into the ICU. It was all very slick and seemed almost routine to them.

I resumed my usual seat at that time, next to Sally's bed in the ICU. I was tired. I had stood, watching the operation, for nearly four and a half hours. I dozed and was woken by Raphaella. She had a small tablet in her hand, like a big phone. She was excited and chatty, and it woke me up.  

- "This may take time," she told me. "Sally may not understand the signals at first. We are only going on what other candidates have found to work. No one was as young as she is; none as cut off as she is." 
- "What do I do?" I asked Raphaella. 
- And she said, "Just type, a vocabulary of no more than three or four common words. Remember, short repeating words. Her name is best - repeat it often."

I sat there, excited, typing words over and over, trying to get through to Sally. The nurses came and went, as they did, checking the life-support, and so on. About mid-morning, one of them saw the cradle. I said nothing. She left and a while later a doctor, one of the local team, came in. He asked me about it. I told him. I told him everything. He left, and I just carried on, tapping away, hoping for something. Then, just after lunchtime, three police officers knocked on the door of the ICU. They arrested me for child abuse.

I was in prison for five days. Nearly a week and it felt like months. They held me on remand -- it was the media, I was all over the news -- and getting bail was a battle. I spent the first night in a police cell, with the officers whispering threats, banging on the cell door, scaring me. I was taken to court first thing in the morning for arraignment, then to Wormwood Scrubs, D Wing -- for *high-risk prisoners*. I've never been so afraid in my life. I was kept alone, for my protection, they said. I had no TV or the Internet. By the time I was out, the media circus had moved on, as it does, onto its next drama. I suppose I was spared all that, while I was in that cell, while it was happening. I only learnt of that week when I got out on bail.

When I was bailed, Raphaella was there, with my solicitor. She told me what had happened after the police came and arrested me. The media had depicted me as an abusive monster. They then took Joan's words and twisted them out of context, making her complicit; her erratic behaviour had allowed me to carry out what I did, they'd said. What had been a private family tragedy became lurid public debate overnight. There was a hysteria about it. The emotion of the public response was similar to Joan's tormented anger when Sally was first sick -- it lashed out at everyone involved and me in particular. And, of course, the media fanned the flames, pouring on fuel, encouraging the public to hurl invective at the family on fire, all supported by sponsored clicks and advertising minutes.

But, I didn't care about all that. There had been a lot that had gone on, with *Bright Futures* and Raphaella. All I wanted to know was whether there was any change with Sally. I just didn't care about what was happening in the media, or elsewhere. I had been cut off, and it had been the worst torture. But, Raphaella was downcast -- there had been no change. I went home and back to the tablet screen, tapping in words, over and over. It was four in the morning, and I hadn't slept to any degree for nearly two days when she replied.

Sally thought she was asleep and dreaming. She was dreaming of letters. They had fallen across the dark then hung in space: meaningless at first. They had faded. Then they had reappeared. They had changed, but she did not understand them. She said she felt tired and had drifted away to the memories of her body and senses of places and people past that she remade into new worlds for her to explore, in her dreams. When she woke, the words were still there. A few simple words she could see and then she understood.

I danced, I got up and danced about the room, when I read her words! I have never felt joy like that moment. I just kept staring at those words on the screen of the tablet.

*::hello grandad.::* 
