
# Chapter 4

<span class="firstLetter">W</span>E WERE MAKING REAL PROGRESS. Everything was going well. We had Lia embedded at *Bright Futures*. We were influencing social media and the general news outlets. The stories were spreading of the threat that transhumanism brought to our way of life. We believed we had real momentum, given the push we had from Lia's information. Then came Sally Taylor. She looked, at first, like another terrific opportunity for us. But, in fact, our problems started with her. All the progress we had made was thrown back by that unfortunate ten year-old girl. How can you pick a fight with that? How can you attack the morals of a grieving mother? Or take to task the actions of a despairing grandfather? You cannot. Look, I know, I tried, and it cost me everything. 

Sally's story is a remarkable tale of persistence. Though faced with an insurmountable wall of evidence, those who loved her still clung to a delicate hope, which they nurtured until, over time, it grew into a monumental thing that surmounted any obstacle. While many may feel that an ethical line was crossed by those close to her, you have to ask, when is any price too high when it comes to the life of a child? 

Melvin Taylor lived then on a street that is the epitome of suburban comfortable living, in Richmond, Surrey. This road was once lined, nose to tail, on either side, with shiny cars that made the street feel narrow, but meant any traffic was slowed if it were to come down it. The cars were a sign of wealth though seldom used. The pavement was wide and plane trees grew, at even intervals along it. Melvin's home was a clean-bricked, three-story town house that stood mid-way along. It was set back from the street with a neat, cobbled parking area out front. It had inviting yellow lights that spilt from the windows, brightening the grey day I first visited.

Inside was warm. Thick colourful rugs covered the bare wooden flooring. And on one, Melvin told me, Sally, then ten years-old, had sat cross-legged, her hands supporting her head, her elbows on her knees. "We were playing chess," he recalled, "and Sally, so bright and quick, used to taunt me, 'It's your go, grandad. You're sooo slow,' she'd say. You see, I remember every detail of that afternoon, as if I could access, on demand, a looped home movie in my mind." Melvin had played this memory over and over, so that he could recall every word, every gesture of that day their life changed, as if they were happening before him.

"I remember her sighing," he told me, "'So slow. It will be dark, and you said we were going to the park.' I slid a pawn one space forwards. 'There,' I said. I hung my hand for a moment over that piece, uncertain that it would be a wise move. 'All that thinking for that!' Sally giggled, then she leaned acutely from the hips, snatched up my hesitant pawn with one hand and slid her bishop onto its place with the other. 'Check!' She laughed. I remember kidding her, 'Ahh, now I have you.' You know, putting on this frown, a mock frown of deep thought. I was losing again, so I told her, 'To save your embarrassment, let's go to the park now. We can finish this game when we get back.' She teased me back, 'Sure, grandad, because I am *so* going to lose. Let's go.' I remember just how she easily lifted herself on the spot, her legs elegantly unfolding as she rose. And how she stretched and dashed off down the corridor, her dark hair bouncing down her back. It is still all so vivid, even the way I had levered myself up into a seated position. How I awkwardly picked up the chess board and placed it on the coffee table. How I had pushed up on one knee, and how I had creaked myself upright. And above all, how I had followed her happily. 

"We had wrapped up warm that day, with coats and scarves, gloves and hats. Along the street was a narrow alleyway. A cold wind sped through as walked down it, Sally chatting and I half-listening so any questions she threw out could be answered and I would avoid the chastisement for not paying her my full attention. I had this daft smile on my face all the way. I watched her skip and twist. I had energy just from her being at my side." As Melvin told me later that he had thought, many times, how much he wanted to go back in time and tell himself to take Sally home, back into the warm.

"After some time," he continued, "the alleyway ended. The street beyond was closed at one end, not with houses, but a high, red-brick wall. Naked trees pressed in there, towards a large black iron gate that gave entry to the park beyond. We opened it and went in," he told me. "The gate clanged behind us and I looked back, it made such a sound. Sally ran off, jumping and swirling, her cheeks pink in the cold air, as I crunched along the gravel path after her. Under the damp trees I could see my breath. It was cold. I puffed my way up the zigzagging path, up the park rise, as she ran towards the shiny silver, winter's sky of that day. *The* day.

At the top of the rise we stopped. I was out of breath and sat on the bench there. I remember the view, back across the city, and the how the air was clear, and sprawl of London stretched out before us, houses after houses. I said to her, 'Look at all those people, Sally!' Sally was stood behind me on the grass bank, her shoes wet and muddy. She was quiet then, for the first time that day. 'A lot of people, Sally, all chatting on, making noise,' I teased her. I knew she always bit at the bait of this comment, but not that time. Sally was still for a moment, staring towards something distant, her face pale. 'You okay, chicken?' I asked. And I knew she was not, 'Can we go, I don't feel so good,' she said. I felt my heart jump. I wanted to get her back in the warm and worried that her mother, Joan, would be mad at letting her get so cold. I stood up from the bench. As I did so, Sally slowly fell. The knees of her woollen tights sank into the soft grass. I caught her and grasped her arms and lifted her back onto her feet. Her face was drained and her eyes had sunk back into their sockets. 'I'm okay, Grandad, I'm just cold. Let's go,' she said, her voice all dreamy and quiet.

"We walked back down the gravel path and I held Sally's hand gently as we went. Her hand was cold, her gloves were gone. I did not hold it hard enough, as when we approached the gate again, she stumbled and fell again. She slipped from my grasp and fell heavily on her face. I can clearly hear the sound the gravel crunching into her cheek, even now. I lifted her up again, and she slumped over my shoulder, my arms gripped beneath her legs. She was a big girl for ten; she was so tall. But you know what? I never noticed her weight as I carried her back to the house in my arms, I was so worried. I fled back. I remember nothing of it, the trip home.

"Back at the house, she brightened, chatting again, warming up. I made her take off her muddy tights and put on warm pyjamas bottoms. I made her hot chocolate. She drank it and looked better, cold was back in her cheeks and my anxiety ebbed. I asked her, 'Wanna finish the game? I feel bad though, as I'm going to beat you.' Sally was defiant, as always, 'Yeah, right. When did you last win a game, when I was like, what, eight?" She lifted the board back onto the floor. She plopped down cross-legged in her usual manner, except she tilted awkwardly. I can see now her hand going forward and landing in the middle of that board, to catch herself, making the chess pieces tumble. And I just stood there, staring at Sally. I didn't know what to do. What was wrong? She started to cry. She tried to pick the pieces up, but somehow her hands fumbled them and she knocked the remaining pieces across the board.

"As that scene plays in my mind, my heart always sinks to my stomach," Melvin said. "I dropped to my knees next to her and held her, pulling her into me, tight. 'It's okay, it's okay. You've got cold and your body is playing up. I've got you, Grandad's got you,' and she leant into me and I surrounded her with my arms. Over and over, I whispered to her, 'Grandad's got you, Grandad's got you.' But I hadn't, had I. She was sick, we know that now. Something was very wrong with Sally, something very rare and dangerous.

"God, it happened so quickly. It were as if at each minute's passing she diminished. It was fast, so fast. Mid-afternoon, she was skipping up the path in the park. Within five hours she was in hospital. By that time, she could no longer walk without assistance. The doctors didn't know what was wrong. They still don't, they are clueless. The poor child was terrified at what was happening to her. By the time Joan, Sally's mother, arrived at the hospital, she was finding it hard to hold things with her hands. Her speech was not right, she was mispronouncing her words. Joan was furious. She was shouting at the doctors and their doubt fuelled her rage. To her, they weren't doing anything. To her, the change to Sally was abrupt, she had not seen the change, as fast as it was. The doctor's then told us they wanted to move her. They wanted to send her to the National Hospital For Neurology and Neurosurgery at Queen's Square. They told us they thought that her condition was neurological, that there was something wrong with her brain. Joan was demanding what was wrong with Sally. Her child was dying and she was lashing out, throwing insults at the people who were trying to save her daughter's life. I got in the ambulance with Sally, her mother still raving at the doctors and by then in total panic. But, she was not helping things, just making them worse. Sally was crying and crying, frightened at her mother's behaviour. So, I went with Sally and left Joan behind. I was afraid too. The road was wet and dark, but we roared towards the city with lights and sirens slicing through the traffic, paring it back to reveal a bare, black ribbon of asphalt into the night. 

"By the time we got to Queens Square, Sally was immobile and her speech was slurred and barely coherent. As she was brought in, she had a convulsion. She frothed at the mouth, her legs and arms thrashed about. It was midnight. The medical team rushed her into the ICU and she went into cardiac arrest. She was dying, right there in front of me. Joan arrived. She shouted for her child. Her voice was torn and ragged. She shrieked her terror at everyone near. It was chaos. I heard her first, then saw her outside the ICU. She was physically wrestling with two nurses out in the corridor. I could see it through the glass door pane. They were on the floor, grappling like drunks outside a cheap bar. The nurses silently pinned her down, restraining her. She made animal noises as she struggled, not human, she grunted, her mouth and eyes wet and wide. All the while, the medical team in the ICU worked on. It was surreal. The madness in the corridor. The alarms and beeps inside the room. With quiet, calm words and actions they stabilised Sally. They just worked through the noise, oblivious. She was put on a ventilator and her heart driven artificially. All life paused then. We sucked in a great breath and let fatigue wash over us and dilute our fear. Joan was demolished, the fury was let out and she was left deflated. She slumped on a chair in the hallway, alone. The knees of her tights were ripped. There was a bright drop of blood on the front of her white blouse. Her eyes were like wet soot with her make up all clumped and streaked. I sat in the ICU, next to the corpse-like figure of my granddaughter. I held her hand. She had slipped away and had left no external sign of life. There was nothing of the bright young girl she was only hours earlier there in that room. But, somehow, I don't know how, even then, I *knew* she wasn't dead. I *knew* it.

"Life then became suspended. For the next week, I lived at the hospital, and mostly in that room, with Sally. In that room, with it's bleeping and flashing lights. I was numb. The doctors were damning in their prognosis, there was no obvious sign of life. Then Sally's heart resumed. It was the faintest of hopes. The doctors took scans of her brain. They showed 'nothing of note', they said, nor could they get any reaction to physical stimuli. I was stubborn regardless. I said to them that maybe it happened so fast that her body had just shut down. I said that maybe she just needed time. I felt the pressure of being alone, of being the only one holding a point of view. There was a consensus that Sally was beyond hope. Everyone felt, but did not explicitly say, that there was only one course of action. I was not having it, she needed more time, I said. I forbade any discussion of switching off life-support. I barely moved from the ICU. I was like a watchdog, looking over her, daring anyone to harm her.

"Joan became angry with me, distant and brooding. Ten days after Sally had fallen sick, I found my daughter with her. I had gone for a shower and some food. I was exhausted. Joan was in the ICU, when I returned. She had dressed Sally in new bed clothes and brushed her hair; she had made her look nice. When I came in, she was speaking to Sally, holding her hand. She was saying goodbye. I was furious. I stormed out and called a legal friend of mine. I wanted to ensure that nothing was done without my say so. Joan wanted the life-support turned off, 'so she could mourn,' she said. I just couldn't fathom the idea. I had to get Joan away from the hospital, for a while at least. Her crazed incident in the corridor had become useful and my friend had convinced the police to look into the matter. They asked her to leave the hospital while they investigated further. With her gone I went to work on the medical staff. The doctors were patient with me, I'll give them that. They pitied me, I suppose, they had seen it many times before - relatives clinging to hope. I bored into them and tried to dig out anything of value. I even got them to admit the brain scans were puzzling, and confessed that *something* may be going on in there. But, to a person, they could never give me any hope of improvement. Sally's life was balanced on a knife edge. Joan was in mourning. The doctors at the hospital were equally as decided. The overwhelming view was there was no hope left. I was the only voice left opposing it all, you know, termination. My position was that even if there were only the faintest glimmer of a chance, it was better to wait. I refused to be rushed into any decision. There was no harm in waiting. But the pressure was mounting. It was unbearable.

"Then, two weeks after Sally was admitted, Raphaella arrived at the hospital. She came through the place like a wind. Her glamorous charm and persuasiveness changed the air; she changed everything. Raphaella was a very easy person to like. She had that southern belle accent and a calm, low tone; I felt nothing flustered her. When things got really tense, and most situations were tense then, she would smile and you could feel the atmosphere in the room lighten and everyone relax a little. It was a fantastic talent, it really was. If I still had my business, I would have tried to hire that woman. I came to love her.

"She asked me for access to Sally. I agreed. I even managed to convince Joan it was a good idea. It was the last throw of the dice, I told her. Raphaella's team reviewed the data and evaluated Sally's condition. They were thorough. Raphaella used her charm to ensure the local medical team stayed engaged and responsive. Her team were respectful of the work done at the hospital and they made their respect known. But they had unique experience the local team lacked. They had been involved in research and studies that showed a very different view of locked-in patients, compared to the thinking before that time. In their view, while Sally was very sick and her activity levels low, she was very much alive. This was great news, but I was angry. I took their carefully delivered results as too soft, a medical dressing placed over professional malpractice. These were experts in their field, how could they not know of the work being done? Did they not read the studies and the papers on the numerous cases of patients, like Sally, who were unresponsive, but later pulled through? It was Raphaella who brought me back to my senses and gave me the slap I needed. She told me bluntly that Sally was at the very limit of medical knowledge and there were so many uncertainties and so many unknowns. She was deliberate in her remonstration; it was delivered in front of the medical teams. She wanted to bring everyone together, not divide them. As she put it to me, 'How will berating them help Sally? She needs everyone on her side right now. We all need to pull together.'

"Of course, not everyone was on the same side. There were agendas, some of which I still cannot get a grip on. Raphaella was increasingly secretive. She then put forward a plan for a battery of further tests. This time, there was to be no stone left unturned. The schedule was for it to last between five and eight hours. She came to me that evening at my house - I needed to get out of the hospital for a while and take a shower, get fresh clothes and just have a change of scenery. I'd just got out of the shower when the doorbell went. I let her in, water was still dripping off my hair. As soon as the door was closed she said, 'I have a plan, Melvin. It may save Sally's life. If you agree we will conduct surgery tomorrow during the tests.'

- meets Gray understands what a *Gate* is
- the surgery and all its gory detail
- Being arrested and child abuse
- Bail and remote access