
# Chapter 5
I HEARD OF SALLY TAYLOR when I was in California with the *Crackpots*. It made the news around the world. People were split on what to think. To some, her recovery, if you could call it that, was unsettling, creepy even. To others, she was a miracle. Rob Andrews saw her like that. 

- "Lia, you must understand what this means. Sally Taylor is the first of the new breed of humans," Andrews told me. "She will know little about a life without enhancement. She will race to the future." 

To him, Sally became a religious figure, like a saint. Poor kid.

After I had connected to the rest of the group, we'd all been busy. Andrews had this idea that *Bright Futures* was under attack. He didn't make it clear by whom, or how, or why they were attacking. Nonetheless, he brought in a couple of contractors to work on the websites and tasked us instead with hacking media outlets that were publishing anything anti-*Bright Futures*. It was nuts. No one had a clue what they were doing. We were just surfing the Web all day, trying to find negative content and comments and looking up how to to hack websites. He said he had a plan. While we were Googling how to be hackers, he was writing this '*Manifesto*', a huge, rambling list of objectives and demands that would deliver a new society for humanity. It made no sense; it really didn't. But we all went along with it.

Andrews' told us his *Manifesto* was based on the Communist one, the one Karl Marx and his gang wrote over a century ago. All we heard, both verbally and directly were the words of this *masterpiece*.   

>It is not if, but when we will be programmable, and able to bypass the learning process, humans will be blended with machine and transcend our meat-based origins. Let us enhance and lift ourselves from our baseness. Let us write the code anew, and make ourselves fresh and free from the outdated biology that hinders us. 

I heard that stuff every day during my time with the *Crackpots*. The others in our group would recite it like a mantra and, after a while, I found myself joining them. We were brainwashing ourselves. I have to say that until everything went south, I was getting there, getting sucked into the ideas and concepts. It sounds so good that we can just upgrade ourselves like an old computer. Add more RAM, a faster CPU, more storage -- no wonder the techies love these ideas so much. It's just like their work. Swap out components to get better performance. If we could only do that with ourselves, wouldn't that be better? 

But the issue was that no one I spoke to at *Bright Futures* even said any of this stuff. And let's be clear on one thing else, sure *Bright Futures* paid our cheques, but we didn't really work for them. We were a services subsidiary, only re-branded the year before. We weren't even co-located. We were in a shitty office across the Bay Bridge in Oakland. The *Bright Futures* campus was in San Carlos, miles away. We could have been a cleaning division within the organisation and been closer to what they did and where. 

Andrews was so immersed in it all his personality transformed. He became quieter, more thoughtful, and when he did speak, he quoted from his *Manifesto*. He began to lapse into mini-trances, sometimes in mid-sentence, and his hand gestures were all open-palms and gentle clasping. One morning, I went into his office. I sat on the chair by his desk and he was sat silent, his hands clasped together, he was oblivious of me. I reached out to him with my *Gate* and as I connected my mind flashed with an image. I only realised what that image was years later, when I was back in Wellington. I went with a work colleague to a reissue of the classic film, Ben Hur. The scene was when a mysterious man gave the now slave Charlton Heston water as he is marched by Roman soldiers. Andrews was modelling himself on movie depictions of Jesus!

Andrews rewrote his manifesto time and time again and then made us read it out loud to him, each of us reading out a different part. When he did finish it, he wanted us to post it on every website on his 'list'. His 'list' was a seemingly unconnected set of sites that 'deserved' our intervention. He said we were going to be like *Anonymous*, the old hacker group, and take out or expose those organisations that opposed the *Manifesto* and the intentions of *Bright Futures*. So that was us. We were surfing the Internet, pretending to be hackers and learning by rote the *Manifesto*.

Then, one day, Toby, one of the devs, said he'd found a way of hacking into a couple of sites using a commonly known exploit. One was the site of a Baptist Church in Arizona. But, of course, one was *ConnectU Services*, Melvin Taylor's company, which I used to work for. Before I knew it, Andrews had his stupid *Manifesto* up on the front page on both sites.

The Baptist Church didn't notice for over a month. But *ConnectU Services*, well, as soon as it was up, the shit hit the fan. And I was covered in it, up to my neck. They were pissed off, of course, but not because of Andrews' *Manifesto* -- no one cared about that except cranks like the *Human Association* and Charles Godwin, who saw it as a smoking gun, or something. No, they were pissed because of Melvin's link to *Bright Futures*. Because of his granddaughter, Sally Taylor. It was an embarrassment to them. And, of course, because they were a tech company, worse a tech company that sold security services to paying customers - and they were hacked by idiots. 

<!-- To here mickclarke138 - changes-->

They threw the sink at me. Ex-employee, radical, loner, loser. I was toast. And where were you and your merry band, Godwin? Fucking nowhere, that's where. You hung me out to fucking dry! The only reason I was in the US was because you had set it up. I was working for you. You got your coup. You got both Melvin Taylor and *Bright Futures* dragged through the mud. Did I get a reward? *Did I fuck! You did nothing, said nothing! You let me rot! You cunt!*" Lia was shouting at me now. Her face was fury; drops of spittle flicked from her lips as she raged in my face. The cafe was silent, staring at us.

Lia stood up, her chair falling backwards, clattering into the cake cabinet behind her. She turned and strode towards the door. "And fuck all of you too!" She yelled back into the cafe, the door open and the tempest outside blew in her words with a roar. The door closed. The place was still. Then slowly, the noise of clinking cups and knives on plates resumed, then whispers, then chatter. It was as if nothing had happened. Everyone just got on with their business, drinking the good coffee, eating the delicious food; they had all forgotten Lia and how her life had disintegrated. No one cared. I finished the last of my coffee and got up to pay. "I'm sorry about that," I said to the barista at the till. "No worries, bro. People just got to let it out sometimes, aye," he replied. I left, and the wind and rain hit my face like a slap.

Do I feel bad, about what happened to Lia? Sure. That said, we had got what we needed from her within a month of her joining the '*Crackpots*'. Yes, the *Manifesto* was pure gold and tying in both *Bright Futures* and Melvin Taylor, couldn't have been better. But, as Susan had told Lia, we already had what we needed. We had enough months before Andrews got religion and tried to evangelise everyone on the planet. She stayed nonetheless. Lia admitted she had enjoyed it there, the life there, showing off to her friends in Wellington of her fancy job in San Francisco. She stayed. She had connected to Andrews and his acolytes. She was there when they hacked into those sites. She could have left, but she stayed. We are, all of us, responsible for what happened.


<!-- Clipped out from various locations -->

AT THE SAME TIME SALLY'S HEALTH WAS FAILING her on that cold day in London, Lia was undertaking the task we at the *Human Association* had given her. I have to be honest at this point, I truly thought Lia would pull off her challenge. She started well enough. Within a week she had connected to the small group of software engineers at *Bright Futures*she called the *Crackpots*.

I met with Lia in a number of locations around Wellington while I was in New Zealand to see her. A favourite was a cafe on Cuba Street, in the centre of the city. We never met anywhere that was not a neutral venue. I never learnt where she lived. Our conversations, which stretched over more than a week, had none of the intimacy of sharing that my sessions with Melvin had. She had no trust in me. She still felt vulnerable to me I assume. Or, maybe, there was nothing below the surface. I don't know. 

She was late that day. It was our third meeting, and it was blowing a gale and gusting rain outside, so I took a taxi across town. It was quaint to have a driver again, but he had taken a long route, I was sure; it had been quicker when I had walked. The short walk up the pedestrianised section of the street to the cafe had left me soaked. I had ordered a coffee and some brunch and waited for Lia. By the time she came in, I had dried out somewhat and finished my coffee and food. I ordered another coffee and one for her. 

- "I had a hangover after we last met," she said. She smiled at me. 
- "Me too," I conceded. "Are any of the beers there not, like, ten percent?" 
- She smiled, "No, I don't think so."
- "So, how did you get back here? In Wellington, I mean? We lost touch with you after the leak." 
- "After you had no need for me anymore, you mean." She still smiled. 
- She seemed calmer that day, the edge that she had carried at our previous meetings had softened. 
- "I'll tell you what happened," she continued. "It all sounds silly now, when I think about it, it was so trivial, the whole thing."

<!-- Moved from Chapter 2 - not sure what to do with it... -->

"So there you go. Those five guys are the sum of my experience. And after the initial rush, which does something to you, if you get my drift," Lia looked at me from under her brows again, that time with a different expression. "After *that* subsided, I soon realised that all I was left with was just a more intense version of Andrews verbal sermons. In fact, I understood why the others were so often silent. Andrews was like a loud radio! He never shut up. He broadcast his ravings all the time. The only way you could get any peace was by switching the *Gate* connection off. The funny thing was, he didn't even notice when you did."  
    "Push, pull," I interrupted.  
    "What?"  
    "Someone I know called that type of connection, 'push, pull'. One of you pushes and the other pulls. It's not sharing, that's two-way; it's like on the Internet when someone posts something. They push it out there, I pull to, say my phone, and I read it. But, if the poster is a big shot like Andrews thought he was, it's one-way - there's nothing that I could share back that would be of any interest to the likes of him. There is no conversation."  
    "I get it," Lia said. "Oh, I get it. No one listens."

Lia fell quiet again. She rotated her beer glass back and forth, and stared into the bottom of it, waiting, as if it would give her some answer to it all. At that moment I realised, she was little different to Andrews. She was what Gray called a 'wannabe', those who liked the idea of things rather the living the reality. For the likes of Lia, the idea of being connected was distinct from what it was really like because they never gave themselves to others, they never worked at it. They were trapped inside their bubbles, bouncing off those of others, they never actually connected to people. Don't get me wrong, Lia wasn't a bad person, nor was she the narcissist Andrews was, but, she was a user like him. She felt entitled; she felt that everyone owed her something, that her failures with people were all due to their lack, not hers. No amount of technology could fix that.