
# Chapter 7 
IN THE MORNING, before I went to see Melvin on that rainy day, I did a strange thing, for me at least. I went to a flotation therapy clinic, in West London. I had looked them up on the Web; their sales pitch was to provide people with a refuge from the stresses of modern life and float in these tanks, listening to whale-song. Their website was all a bit hippy new-age; all bamboo groves and joss-sticks; full of meaningless phrases of deserving self-seeking. I booked in for a two-hour session. When I got there, it wasn't like the website, at all. Instead, it was like a cliche future: a hyper-modern clinic, staffed by beautiful people, in immaculately tailored white tunic suits. A blonde goddess, doubtless named Lenina, led me to a room. Inside it was so white that my eyes struggled to focus on the details in the bright light. With the door closed, it was silent. It was immaculate. It smelt faintly of a herbal scent I couldn't place. In the centre was a huge white pod, smooth and curved like a marble pebble, shaped like a semi-flattened egg. I undressed and put my jarringly non-white clothes in a cabinet. Naked, I pressed the illuminated button, and the pod opened, slowly. It was full of water, subtly lit with a blue light. I got in. The water was felt neither warm or cold. It was not there. I closed the lid. Just at the point it clicked shut, I could just see the light in the room outside go out. I put in some ear plugs that were on a tray at my elbow and stretched out. I floated. The blue light dimmed and went out. It was black. The water was salty. I could hear my blood, pumping. I relaxed, and I could hear my heart slow. My thoughts were vivid, focused. I thought of Sally Taylor. I imagined her, while I floated there.

As deprived of normal sensations as I was, I was nowhere near how Sally must have felt. I could feel my tongue in my mouth, moving. I could tense my thighs or my buttocks and feel the water move across my skin. I could feel my breath enter and leave my nostrils. I could hear the organic machinery of my body. I could sense my living self. I could speak and hear my voice, though loud, through my skull. I was alive, even though I could not see, I could feel.

Imagine utter sensory deprivation. Not like that pod that allow you merely to float in a dark silence. This is utter. This is nothing at all. The only thing that exists is that which your brain produces itself. And in the void, the brain does produce. It has to. Sensations drift across imagined limbs. An itch that cannot be scratched; a light flickers just out of sight; a rustle, a hiss just out of earshot. You are disembodied. You float with no concept of up or down, or front or back. The ghostly memories of your senses replay within the void, hinting at what may be, was and is now. The parts of your brain that think swiftest imagine threat and refuge. All that is real is the projection of self. But, nothing but memories of what once was exists now. No new input to the process. Nothing.

As I floated there, in that pod designed to deprive you of your senses, massive amounts of data were still flowing into my brain. In fact, my limited senses were heightened. I was hyper-aware of things with those I still had. While I could enjoy this unusual feeling, I thought of Sally. She was cut off from all senses. She had none. The tank had not brought me any closer to understanding how Sally felt. I couldn't; Sally felt nothing.

Later that day, Melvin had brought me to see Sally. We took a taxi to the hospital where she had been for over two years. We said nothing as the taxi quietly splashed through the city streets. Water ran down the windscreen, and I pushed the wiper button to clear it, so I could see as we pulled up outside the hospital. The red brick of the old hospital buildings was stained dark in the wet. It loomed over us as we ran inside, still silent, our backs spotted with the rain that splattered there.

Inside, he took me to where she lay. We went inside the room. Along one wall was a large window, a partition, the other side of which was Sally, secure from the world outside, sealed from that which may harm her. We washed, rigorously, in the two surgical sinks and put on overalls, and covers for feet, head and gloves for out hands. Once protected, we entered in the inner sanctum.

She lay motionless, Sally, grey-skinned, lifeless, supported only by machines, fed through a tube, her waste collected in a bag. She lies there still, she will never move from that place, I think, not physically. The room was brightly painted, and there were fresh flowers and well-wishers' cards on show behind the partition window. The medical machinery that surrounded her made her look to me shrunken in size, even though, as Melvin had said, she was a tall girl for a twelve-year-old. She was only two inches shy of my five feet eleven. There was no life in that room, it was more a crypt, with Sally's body like mummified remains. The rain was still pouring outside, and the sky was grey. The trees in the square moved their black limbs in the wind that had picked up. Rain began to hit the external window as it swirled around in the gloom. The room grew darker still.

Melvin and I each sat in a chair on either side of Sally's bed. We wore identical clean room clothing; our hands and faces reddened by scrubbing required for entry into her room. He spoke quietly, almost a whisper, as if not to rouse her; his voice seemed muffled by the face mask he wore. I had to lean in, to hear him clearly. I was very close to her then. I watched her chest rise and fall in time to a bellows that rose and fell within a glass cylinder. The rain bounced on the window; the ventilator slowly hissed, the heart monitor gave quiet beeps. These were the only sounds in that room.

"Those early text-based communications were harrowing," Melvin said, ending the hush. "That black space Sally lived in. The only stimulation she received was the messages that came through the *Gate*. If the words stopped, there was nothing left: a void without echo. It terrified us as it must have terrified her. Sally's mother found it very hard. Joan took the brunt of Sally's suffering. She took the insults, the raging texts. She took them as her mother. She took them because no one else would, not even me. I think only she knew what that place was like, where Sally was. Joan knew it through the reflecting mirror of Sally's fury. She would sit here, alone mostly, for days. She would fuss over Sally's appearance, how her hair was, whether she had clean bed clothes. She would read to her. She would describe her day. Even though she knew the only way to get through to her was through the device embedded in her head, she would speak to her. I think she hated that, the computer communication. It was unnatural, true enough. It was as if Sally no longer lived in the physical world and had become a ghost. She haunts this place but does not live here. She lives somewhere else. I am not sure, Charles, where that place is. Is it in her head? How do any of us know for sure?

"Sally's health was hanging by a thread. Her mental state we saw in the text interchanges, but it was her physical state that concerned us most. It was nearly four months now, and the medical complications were mounting, not day by day, by hour by hour. The outlook for her survival was starting to look bleaker by the moment. The doctors, both at the hospital and from *Bright Futures*, were worried that irreversible damage was being done, and they couldn't fathom the reasons. We would walk from meeting after meeting, Joan and I, shell-shocked at the lengthening list of issues that threatened her. Both of us would then sit and chat to Sally, and try to make her feel everything was fine and that she was getting better. The media was all over us by now. I couldn't even turn on my phone. Joan just crumbled. She made a few comments that made it look like we were monsters, or worse that we had been manipulated by *Bright Futures*. People were starting to believe we were making Sally's life a misery.

"Then Sally had another cardiac incident. They needed to support her heart again, but the machine couldn't regulate her blood pressure. We thought we had lost her. I was speaking to her at the time too, through the *Gate*. She couldn't feel anything, but she said it was getting difficult to concentrate. She was sleepy. In the room, Joan has asked for the machine to be switched off. I was there texting Sally and getting less and less, then nothing. I ran into her room. They were killing her!" 

Melvin's raised his voice for the first time in our meetings. Even now, he was furious at what he felt happened to Sally. He glanced towards the ceiling and drew a deep breath. "But when they did - switch it off I mean, her heart kept beating. The reason the blood machine had been struggling was it was fighting with her heart. They ventilated her conventionally, and her body recovered.

"I was frantically texting her again. She responded, 'Grandad! I was sleeping. Why are you so excited? What's going on?' So I told her. We'd hidden lots of stuff from her, Christ she was ten-years-old. She seemed okay about it. She took it all in, I think, she even asked a few questions I couldn't answer, of course, but overall she was okay. Then she said, 'I'm bored Grandad. There is only you and mum and Raphaella to speak to. Can I watch TV or something?' This was the moment when we came up with the idea of connecting her to the Internet.

"Raphaella said it had been already done. It didn't require any surgery, nor was there any real risk. It would take her a good while to work it out, but *Bright Futures* had a team in the US who would be able to help her work it all out. Anyway, while everything was getting arranged, we told Sally what was going to happen. She was excited, not so much at the idea of being connected to the Internet, but at connecting to other people. I guess she was bored of Joan and I more than anything.

"Her body improved too. She stabilised. At each day's meeting, instead of her list of issues increasing as before, and the atmosphere in the room becoming gloomier, her issues reduced, and everyone involved was brighter. Funny, it was a highlight, you know, when one of the medical team said 'Sally is now a conventional long-term life-support patient'! After four months of struggle, we cheered a prognosis that in any other circumstance would have been terrible to hear." In the room, Melvin looked across at me and at the prone figure of his granddaughter. "She's been like this now for over two years. Her health is okay, save the odd hiccup, she could stay like this, physically, for years they say. Who knows, one day she may just wake up. Others have. They just don't know."

We were silent. The rhythmic sounds of the room and the rain on the window made the silence solid and hard. I looked at Sally's body. I then glanced at Melvin. He was looking up as if in despair. I had noticed that he never actually looked at the body. If Sally was alive to him, it wasn't here, in the flesh and bone. To Melvin, she had transcended the meat; his Sally was 'somewhere else'. He got up, and he ushered me from the room, as he went to leave, he blew a kiss and gave a gentle wave. His aim was high above the body as if he could not bear to look upon her body any longer.

We removed the clean-room clothing and placed them in bins under the shelf with the flowers and cards. As Melvin was sorting himself out, I looked back into the room, through the glass. The room was dark now, and I could not see Sally. I couldn't fathom the depth of despair of that place. I was, and still am, terrified of looking into its possibility. 