
# Chapter 9

<span class="firstLetter">T</span>HE HUSH OF THE HOSPITAL room followed us, back to Melvin's house. It was still raining. The taxi splashed its way back to his house. We were silent for the whole journey. And the rain had washed all the dirt and rubbish from the streets and pavements so the drains were overflowing. My feet were soaked again. We ran into his house. Inside we stripped off our shoes and socks. Melvin made sandwiches and we ate them silently in the kitchen. We sat at a bare wooden table on hard chairs. The chairs were old or new made to look old, either way they were made to look at not sit on for any length of time. As we ate, I felt shame at the physical enjoyment eating gave me. Also, the usual calm that I felt when with Melvin was absent. He was tense. I was uncomfortable.

<!-- Check time line -->
"Do you remember the day we first met, Charles?" I did. I remembered Melvin walking into the boardroom of the Great Portland Street office of *ConnectU Services*. Funny, even though I was sat opposite him only two years later, my memory of him that day was of a taller, younger, more vigorous man. That man was busy and irritated at the invitation to that meeting. "I do remember, Melvin, I remember you being particularly harassed." "I was busy. The world had gone to shit and I had been called in by the board. I knew something was up, as I no longer really had much to do with the day to day operations of the company."
    The *ConnectU Services* London office used to be that of a television company, I forget the name, when broadcast TV was a thing, when people used to sit and watch what they were told they wanted to watch. I'd imagine the building was pretty flash back in the day. Now it was badly in need of renovation and looked worn and tatty. Because of that, it had become cheap office space, for its size and location. Ideal for a IT services company that was obsessed with staying visible to customers, but keeping costs down. Of course, I knew all this as I was a significant share holder. That was the reason I was at the meeting, as the shareholders representative. You see, there is so much luck in this story. It seems all designed, but it was mostly just chance. The fact that events like this were in my favour was lucky. I'm not going to twist the truth of the past to make it seem like I was orchestrating it all.
    "Even though I knew that something was up," Melvin then said. "I was blind-sided by what was said. It was all so personal. Anybody who mentioned Sally at that time was going to light my fuse. Add to that, it was Grant Hoskins who called the meeting. I always thought he was a prick. You know, he was a bean counter who didn't have an ounce of business acumen, who'd worked himself onto the board by leg-humping those above him. I never liked the man. Was he your friend, Charles?" 
    I laughed. I didn't like Grant either. He was one of those empty, ambitious types who gained position by just outlasting everyone else, avoiding any significant mistakes, not because they had any significant talent. He reminded me of Conrad's station manager in *Heart of Darkness*, who only had reached that position because he had a bulletproof constitution and thrived while everyone else's health failed them. Grant Hoskins' was equally as petty and jealous towards those with any talent. He was openly critical of Melvin's time running the company. A laughable position given that Melvin was CEO for nearly thirty years, during which time the company had grown from a small services in North London to one with thriving offices in San Francisco, Sydney and Wellington. Hoskins was the noisiest of the new breed of executives at the company; he ran the London office. The business had grown negligibly since he had taken over. Nonetheless, he believed he was a genius or something, a business visionary who would lead the company out of the services wilderness and into product. He even wore a black turtle neck sweater under his suit jacket. That all said, he was a key ally for me at that time. But I still disliked him. "No, he was not my friend, Melvin," I said. "He was just useful. To be honest with you, I couldn't stand the man, either. I hated the way he was so smug every time he thought he had the upper hand." Melvin nodded at me. 

"'Come in Melvin, please have a seat,'" he mimicked Hoskins' petty tone. "' We won't take up much of your *valuable* time. I'm sure you have lots on you plate right now, what with the media interest, and everything.'" Melvin's impression was good. He also highlighted the purpose of the meeting. There *was* concern at the media attention that *ConnectU Services* had at that time; it was not good for business. It was shown in the stock price. Melvin had nothing to do with that. He had, for some years now, been little more than a figurehead. The company was run by the likes of Hoskins now. The hacking incident was a huge embarrassment and Hoskins felt it was Melvin's involvement with *Bright Futures* that was to blame. Of course, it was not his inept leadership. He was clearly accountable for the company's security policy, but he had argued that the breach was targeted at *ConnectU Services* because of Melvin. Something that made little sense.
    "What I hated about that session was that the logic was all wrong. Hoskins was covering up his own ineptitude by throwing dirt my way. You remember it, 'Don't you think, Melvin, that the attention you are receiving because of Sally, is not in line with what is best for *ConnectU Services*?'" Melvin again took on the tones of Hoskins. "Why would Sally make *ConnectU Services* a target? Especially, given the hackers were pro-Transhuman and indirect employees of *Bright Futures*. The man was an idiot. The logic was all wrong. I just wanted to scream at him, '*What are you talking about!*' But people were lapping it up. 'Lia Cox was an ex-employee of ours, Melvin. You knew that of course. I don't think anyone here is surprised of her links to *Bright Futures* and the transhumanists. Nor why she had chosen us to use as her means of getting her *message* out in public. The link to you and your daughter is obvious for all to see, Melvin.' God! the complete lack of logic of the man. But there everyone was, nodding along with him, agreeing with the nonsense. And agreeing with him, supporting him, when I pointed out the complete lack of security that led to the breach in the first place. 'I don't think that is relevant at all,' he said. 'Anyone can be hacked Melvin, especially when they have insider knowledge.' He was pedalling this take on events, even though every IT security consultant with a blog was pointing out the glaring lack of even the most basic of security controls at *ConnectU*. The media was awash with accusations of incompetence. But, not a single person in that room agreed with me. I wasn't going to win.
    "Of course, I didn't know then, that you were behind it, helping it along. It all made more sense once I knew your agenda, Charles." Melvin shook his head. "Hoskins took his cue from you. He was happy to lead the conversation to more personal topics. Did you believe what you said? Do you believe it that stuff now? Or was it just an angle, something to get people all emotional and misdirected from any sensible discussion?" 
    He had me. I wasn't sure. See, like I said before, a lot of this was just happened. It was luck. I suppose, my talent is riding events when they are going my way. Looking back then, with these questions and the ramifications of any answers I could give, I wasn't sure what to say. "I don't know, Melvin," was all I could come up with. 
    "You don't know! What do you mean, you don't know?" 
    "I mean, like lots of things that happen, you know, I wasn't fully in control." 
    "But what you asked me, about Sally, 'Do you think Sally is still alive, or rather, do you think she is still the same girl, is she still your granddaughter?' You said that. That's pretty direct. You saw her as an abomination. You said that too, not then, but later. Your argument was always about her, not about the share price of *ConnectU Services*. You wanted me gone. You wanted me gone because of Sally." 
    We fell silent. The hard wooden chairs were making me shift in my seat. I wanted to leave, or at least move somewhere where my arse wasn't hurting so much. Melvin sighed and shook his head.
    "It wasn't about her. Not really. I don't know what I felt, to be honest. I started out with a simple idea: that Transhumanism is wrong, that tinkering with ourselves is wrong. It's everywhere, Melvin. And no one is asking the big questions. People are putting devices in their brains; others, do it yourself gene-therapy; some are trying to create artificial life; transplanting monkey heads; human heads; it is happening all around us. How's it all going to end? That is what I wanted to ask. No one knows! We are all of us just drifting towards a future that may have no humanity. That idea terrifies me, Melvin. That is what I am about. I fear the future. But Sally? Jesus, she's just a kid. Was a kid. But, if we just cut through all the emotion, for a moment, my question to you that day *was* valid. In order to keep her alive, you made her something else. Didn't you? It wasn't about Sally. It was about what you'd let her become." 
    Melvin put his hand out, across the table, to stop me. "Yes, I remember, I made her something else, 'Like Frankenstein', you said. She is my granddaughter. I love her." 
    God I was so uncomfortable, the edge of the hard chair was pressing into the back of my legs, my feet were numb. "I am sorry. I just want to ask the question. It wasn't meant to be an attack like that. Really, I am sorry."
    Melvin's fingers drummed on the table. I crossed and uncrossed my legs and shifted my weight to lessen the pressure. "Well," he said, his voice once again calm, "I guess I had been hanging on too long there anyway, at *Connect U*. Only pride that day made me stay longer. I could have agreed and offered my resignation. I should have made a deal. It would have taken the wind of your sails. All of you. 
    "But I could stand the idea of Hoskins face, gloating over my exit." He shook his head. 

Was my apology enough? Did Melvin forgive me for that day, and what I had said? 
    He continued, "That was a missed opportunity. And God only knows it left me out of pocket. Pride. It's a terrible thing. Not knowing when you are beaten, trying to get that last punch in, but swinging at air. But God! That man just has such a punchable face, don't you think?" He laughed. 
    "Oh yes, that he does," I agreed. I felt elated. I was sure now that he had moved on.

"Listen, Melvin, I have to go. Thank you once again." I said as I lifted myself up, my feet still no more than lumps of flesh beneath me. I leant down on the table and shook them out. 
    Melvin looked up at me and grinned as if the torture he had put me through had been enjoyable. "I'm sure I will see you again soon, Charles." He stood also and struck out his hand. I looked at the hand for a moment and then dashed out my own to meet it. We shook, and I turned and left towards the front door, my feet and legs not quite yet my own to command. "See you, Melvin," I said as I closed the the door. 
    Outside it was dark and the rain still came belting down. I put on my umbrella and looked for a taxi. My hands were wet and my phone wouldn't accept my fingerprint. I walked, the feeling in my feet returning only to find them wet. I felt wretched.





