
# the past is before us

I have to say that speaking of Lia is not easy. Not in the way that speaking of Sally is hard, but that Lia is a closed book, all I have and had is the cover, and that gives no more than a rough precis of of the contents.

There is no trust - ah that word again. The world seems to lack trust, or rather a sound reputation that is built up over time, takes only a moment to break. It is a fragile thing but it supports everything we do. Sorry I ramble for a moment. But, this idea is important to understanding Lia. She had no trust in me, even from the earliest point, even when we first met. But she trusted some more than others. Susan for example had Lia's trust. Personally, I find that incredible, that she trusted a person whose only interaction was to sell her out. Susan was my instrument to convince Lia to take up our cause. Yet here we are, nearly two years on from that first betrayal, and still Lia confides in Susan. In fact she arranged for me to go to New Zealand and see Lia. If I had asked I know she wouldn't have even responded.

Susan has seen the inside Lia. As has Gray. Why she lets these people who have no better a history of care than I do is a mystery. Anyway it is what it is. At least they are less shy to share; both Susan and Gray have given me a fuller understanding of the inner Lia and I would ever have got from her directly, given the circumstances. So, I am afraid we must do with third-hand understanding. For all that technology and direct connectedness, we are still stuck at an account given by a third-party witness. And you? Well, you are, what, fourth-hand? And even then, the account you receive is compounded: Lia to Susan, Lia to me, Lia to Gray; Susan to me, Gray to me; me to me; me to you. how much Lia is really in my account, and how much is actually just bits of me, and bit of Susan, and bit of Gray, all mixed together in a Lia-like form. Anyway, as I said, I'd be honest, or as honest as I can be aware of, so you can make your own judgement on the truth of things.

After the authorities let her go, she was seen as a champion of the truth. By many she was seen like an Edward Snowden, an insider who blew the whistle on actions that were unconscionable. But like Snowden, even after the consensus was that his actions brought, on balance, a positive effect, Lia found herself alone. She was not trusted by anyone, she thought at least. The likes of Kyle felt she was lost to them, beyond them, those she connected to felt betrayed, those she helped, like Susan, knew her fragility and could not embrace her further to their cause. She could not contribute or belong to any group without the fear she would break, from them and herself apart. She could not commit herself to anything concrete in case she shattered apart again and could not gather herself together.

So, she found herself in a small, damp apartment, near the hospital in Wellington, a run down area of the city. She had withdrawn, relying on take-out food and refusing the outside world that judged her. The flat had no viable Internet connection. She had no phone. She had fully unplugged. She hoped, at this time, that disconnected she was invisible and that the world that came to her, when her Gate was open, would vanish and never return.

She was depressed and lonely, Gray had told me. Yet, for all that, she was taking no responsibility for what she had done. It was the fault of others. Others like myself, or Susan, or Kyle, or Bright Futures. Gray had gone to see her. She explained, "Lia was useful, even though no one really believed anything thing she said. And, I have always had a bit of me that wanted to rescue people.

"Kyle gave her up," Gray continued, "as easily as asking him, 'Have you seen Lia? I need to see her, do you know where she is living?' He just told me, straight out. Maybe he thought I was from the 'authorities', or I was dangerous, but he never even asked who I was.

"So, I had her address and just went there. I wasn't sure what I was going to say, or even why I was going to see her. I knocked on the door. There was no reply, I banged louder, still nothing, so I was just about to leave and give up, when I heard Lia say, close to the other side of the door, 'Who is it?'.

"I told her it was me. I said it was okay. Lia slowly opened the door. It was just a crack, wide enough to just see her one eye, dark and sunken. I asked her, 'You letting me in?', and she said 'Sure.' and she stepped back slowly and opened the the door just enough for me to slide in. She pushed the door shut hard and as she turned away back into the room, I just grasped her shoulder hard and spun her to face me. I pulled her to me and held her. I could feel all the tension in Kia's body leave her and she slumped against my neck. She sobbed."

I pressed Gray as to why she went there, there must have been something in her mind. She said, "I guess I felt that we'd let Lia down somehow. It was an Old Days thing, we had just let her fend for herself and let chance shape the outcome. I was an idealist, that is why a had Gated-up: I wanted a better society where we were less at the mercy of chance, or the whims of the say-so of a few. We were now armed with a means of consistent and constant communication. So what happened to Lia shouldn't have happened, she shouldn't have just slipped through the net so easily. She had made a choice to join a better world, she'd taken a risk to do so, paid a lot of money, and pretty much ended up where she had started, alone. So, yeah, I guess I wanted to make it right.

"Dr Li, before he'd vanished, told us Lia was connected. He told us that she didn't have clue. We were just too slow. You, Godwin, you and your goons got to her first. Still she taught us lesson, a hard lesson. No one gets connected now without support. The free-for-all, Wild West, days of enhancing is drawing to an end. If people want in, we can help them, we had procedures and policies in place now. And Lia was the catalyst. So, all in I owed her, we all owed her.

"So, we had a bit of a cuddle and when she stopped sobbing, I sat her down. Asked her how she felt, asked her how she was coping, and all that." I said to Gray that she didn't sound too concerned. She said, "I was, I was just not good at that caring and sharing shit, I'm a practical lady. So I sat her down and shared some truths with her.

"I said to her, 'You felt that initial buzz of connection, you know that immediacy of information, the vividness of interacting with another person without the barriers. That can never be sated, you'll always want to revisit that initial high.' She nodded at me. 'It is like doing drugs, see, cocaine or heroin or whatever, it's never as good as the first time, because it never surprises you again the same way. Drugs are great and all, I've always had a comfortable relationship with them.' I told her. 'But connected is not the same. Sure it can be addictive and hey, it may even be as bad for your health, but drugs, you just sit back and they take you for a ride. Being connected, that empowers you. You sit back, nothing happens; you get involved it is as sweet a high as I've ever had. You're connected sister. You're never pulling that Gate out. You're always going to wonder if you can ever have that shocking thrill of your first connection again. And you can, you just need the right shit and the right people to share with. But most importantly, you need to get involved.'

"She just sat there, so I went on. 'You see, I think you just carried on your life the same after you were connected. You don't give yourself to the connection. You filter, you control and you just lie. That's the same way of living as lived, before the Gate is connected. You met Dr Li, yes?' She nodded. 'When he connected to you, he gave you access to everything. That calm you had after connecting with him was complete trust. He was open to you, and you could tell he had hidden nothing from you. He shared with me that you had no opened up, that you were just push-pull - that's what we call it when people just use there Gate to simply send and receive data - you have no emotional content with the data, you push-pull and don't just let people poke around in there and get to know you. Andrews, and those other crackpots at Bright Futures you buddied-up with, they're the same. For all their extremist bullshit and creating a new race of super-humans! Idiots. They are just the same, just with some clever hardware that allows them to think their half-witted thoughts to others, instead of making the effort of speaking them. Sorry Lia, I'm telling you it as it is. I'm sorry for what happened and that Godwin's mob got to you before we could, but I'm not so sure you were ever in the right place to open up as you needed to, as we all have.

"So, I laid it out on the table. Lia needed to get her Gate back on-line and start opening herself up. Only then, I told her, would she get to the point that she had hoped to reach when when she decided to have the gate implanted in the first place. I tell her to connect to me and just let it flow. But she just sat there and started to cry again. 'I can't Gray, I am so afraid of what is in my head, of what you will think if you see it.' I asked her, 'What do you have crazy mad thoughts of killing me or something?' She said, 'No, I want to have good thoughts, smart ideas and kind feelings. But, I just have stupid thoughts, mean feelings and dumb ideas. I'm not the person I want to be and I just don't want people to see that.'

"So there it was. The girl was vain and proud. Too much, so to let others in to poke about. She wanted to be loved, but was too afraid to let others love her for what she was. She hated the fact she was fairly ordinary and this hate stopped her from doing anything interesting. She was just a kid, and she didn't see that to grow up and become the person she wanted to be she had to take the pain caused by the truths given by other people.

"I asked again, but she was too upset to do anything. I left her. She was just sat on the end of that bed in that grubby and damp apartment. I gave it a go." Gray broke off and sat there staring at me. Then she said, "I wish you were connected, Charles. I wish you could feel what you had done, to her and to the others. I wish we could see you for what you are. Because sat here, looking at you, guessing what is going on in that fucking head of yours, makes me hate you and think that you are a fucking ass-hole."

I ducked the assault. I asked her why Lia was important. "She's not. She's no different from anyone. I you hadn't have fucked her up, she's be a no one. She'd probably just gone back to New Zealand, gone back to that shitty job and used her Gate to improve her twitch while gaming. But you did fuck her up, we hadn't done anything to help her. Then she had that brief moment of celebrity. It makes her a person of interest, as they say. She is a monster of your making, Godwin, your pawn and you pushed her too far up the board, so now she's too dangerous to leave alone."


