
# Chapter 13 

<<<<<<< HEAD
<span class="firstLetter">R</span>APHAELLA WAS RIGHT ABOUT ONE THING, too. Melvin was distracted by other things happening around him. In particular, the events at his company, *ConnectU Services*. This was a company that he had put a good deal of his life into for over thirty years. It was hard for him to leave it all behind. Although his role for the last few years had been no more than a figurehead, rolled out for the press and at functions for key customers; he still drew great satisfaction from it. He enjoyed the story that he and a couple of friends had grown a company from a core of few IT contractors, had survived the dotcom boom and bust, the banking crisis and increasing globalisation and come out ahead. The story was mythic. A small company that took on the big-boys and often came out ahead. Melvin loved all that. It gave him an unshakable confidence in himself as if the commercial struggles over the years had laid down layer upon layer of hardened experience; strata that would act as a protective barrier over his inner self. This meant that to those that met him, he seemed calm and thoughtful; he was the sort of unruffled person that others would turn to in times of crisis. Not much broke through those layers. But Melvin had limits of endurance. His was reached in an extraordinary meeting of the *ConnectU Services* Board. He lost more than his position of chairman, he lost his dignity and the respect of others.
=======
<span class="firstLetter">R</span>APHAELLA WAS RIGHT about one thing. Melvin was distracted by other things happening around him. In particular, the events at his company, *ConnectU Services*. This was a company that he had put a good deal of his life into for over thirty years. It was hard for him to leave it all behind. Although his role for the last few years had been no more than a figurehead, rolled out for the press and at functions for key customers; he still drew great satisfaction from it. He enjoyed the story that he and a couple of friends had grown a company from a core of few IT contractors, had survived the dotcom boom and bust, the banking crisis and increasing globalisation and come out ahead. The story was mythic. A small company that took on the big-boys and often came out ahead. Melvin loved all that. It gave him an unshakable confidence in himself as if the commercial struggles over the years had laid down layer upon layer of hardened experience; strata that would act as a protective barrier over his inner self. This meant that to those that met him, he seemed calm and thoughtful; he was the sort of unruffled person that others would turn to in times of crisis. Not much broke through those layers. But Melvin had limits of endurance. His was reached in an extraordinary meeting of the *ConnectU Services* Board. He lost more than his position of chairman, he lost his dignity and the respect of others.
>>>>>>> edit

I had a position on the board as the shareholders' representative. I was the largest independent shareholder. It was a historical position mainly. My father had a large portfolio of shares, I inherited it. He liked small companies in sectors that had potential for considerable growth. When he bought the *ConnectU Services* shares they were cheap. I had bought more when the dotcom bubble burst, when they were even cheaper. They proved to be a resilient and diverse company that refused to hold risk, either financial or contractual. Over the years the shares had performed solidly. Yes, the company's shares had drifted on occasion, with no obvious cause. Sure, fashions led to shareholders moving their capital from services companies to commodities. But these movements had no underpinning story. They were just fluctuations, not trends. They recovered along with the fashions back to where they were at the onset. Even when the share price had dropped nearly twenty percent in 2016, for no convincing reason any analyst could come up with, it hadn't caused any wider shareholder panic. Order books were full, business was good, it was just put down to 'market volatility' and by the year end the share price had more than recovered. It was different this time. There was a narrative given to the random events this time. There was no doubt in the *ConnectU Services* shareholders' minds - Sally's story was having an adverse effect on the stock price. The stock market was a fickle thing and it loved a story. In turn, the gossipy-led downturn in share price had a prophetic and self-fulfilling effect on actual business. Contracts that *ConnectU Services* typically would have won, were lost. Their business pipeline was far from full. Their offices in London and San Francisco, were bursting with benched employees, who with no work at hand had returned from customer sites, their overheads not covered. The shareholders attributed the haemorrhaging confidence to glare of publicity brought by Sally. To them the falling share price was the corollary to her failing health. It made no logical sense, as Melvin had protested. But logic was not involved; it was a purely emotional reaction. It was a financial non sequitur to Sally's discomforting story.

Melvin and I discussed the Board Meeting over lunch. When he suggested we meet on neutral ground, rather than at his home as usual, I thought it appropriate. We were never more opposed than at that Board Meeting. We literally sat on opposite sides. I represented the shareholders and to a person they wanted Melvin gone. What was remarkable was how many had followed Hopkins' lead and now expressed the view that Melvin had been a lame duck for a long time. In fact, there was consensus among them that the company had been hamstrung by his leadership. They were re-writing their history of the company in order to better fit their own view of where they were. They needed to discredit him; once done the could avoid the shame their lack of sympathy brought. If they set him aside, *her* story would no longer curse their business.
    I do not remember that I felt like that myself. *ConnectU Services* were a small player in my portfolio's fortunes. Their share price could fall and fall before I would actually lose money on the deal. No, I wanted Melvin to fall so that the story would further blacken *Bright Futures*. My plan, if it was that, was to ensure that everything associated with human enhancement would be thought of negatively by the wider public. Money speaks; losing money speaks louder. I wanted the concept of human enhancement to be associated with loss, not gain.

We ate at one of those strange places that dot London. Full of dark wood and leather, it served rich, roast food. It was a strange place to come. Neither pub nor club, it was trying to be something that never really existed. It was nearly empty. A few old men ate alone with red faces from the wine and the generous portions of gravy soaked meat. 
    "Interesting venue, Melvin," I teased. "I can't work out whether we should raise a glass of port to the old Queen, God bless her soul, or beer glasses to next stripper, or both." He laughed, but he was not impressed with my humour.
    "I like the place. It does a good roast pork. The beer is okay. It's quiet. You're a snob, Charles." This time he laughed and meant it. I hated being called a snob. It was lazy. I was rich, I went to a good school, so I must be a snob.
    "So, we're going to fork over your firing from *ConnectU Services* over roast pork."
    "And beer. London Pride." Melvin got up and went to the bar. He came back with two pints of beer. "Our roasts will arrive soon."
    "So, tell me, were you surprised by the decision to fire you?"
    "Yes. I thought they'd made a mistake. Not to fire me, I thought they had a misunderstanding of the facts. I thought they thought I'd done something I hadn't. I just didn't realise that they just wanted me gone. Not because of something I'd done, but something I was."

"I'm sorry. The vote was unanimous. The board feel that there is too close a relationship between the recovery of Sally and the business of the company. There are rumours that you used company resources and employees to help with the integration of Sally to the Internet."
"The code used is open source. There are a couple of dev labs that specialise in this stuff. They helped."
"That's illegal."
"No it is not. The act of an unlicensed use of a Gate is illegal, or rather the person installing the Gate is operating outside of the law. The law says nothing about software or the person receiving the Gate."
"It's a shady area. So you are saying that no employees were used?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Come on, that's a convenient line."
"I can't control what employees do in their own time by their own volition."
"Their contracts do. They are clear on working outside of the company while in our employ."
"Look, you want me gone - fine. You try to get me out to save money and try and not pay me out?¦ It won't end well. Sally is very public you know. I can't imagine shareholders liking that story."
"Okay, let's not go there. Listen, let's get to the real point. There are some on the board who want to know about your relationship with Bright Future."
"BFC provided the Gate and the technical team that implanted it into Sally. They provided a consultant ///woman who assisted in connecting to Sally. They're good, professional. I trust them as I know what they want and why they put forward so much resource."
"You aren't involved with their business?"
"No, I guess I am their customer."
"You paid for their assistance?"
"No, as I said, it's pretty clear why they'd help. The publicity alone is worth whatever I could pay them. They're looking pretty good right now."
"That's the problem. Some on the board and certain large shareholders are not happy about this..."
"You mean that Godwin clown."
"Among others."
"Look I'm a pretty straightforward businessman. I don't get the issue. We produce software and sell software services. We're doing well. I can't see that Sally's story will affect that; there's such thing as bad publicity, as they say. And BFC are in no way an issue, they are not a competitor. Not even remotely. Sorry, you say let's get to the real point. You're not. Come on say what you've been sent to say."
"This isn't about business, it's about morals. Many on the board and many shareholders have expressed clearly they think you've overstepped a line."
"You're fucking kidding me? I've overstepped a moral line to save the life of my granddaughter? What the fuck?"
"Have you saved her life? Or have you done something else? We tried to warn you last time we met. You've been used by an organisation to further their agenda. They used your daughter to have a story about how humankind can now cheat death."
"What I'm playing God. Oh for fucks sake, *really*? This is due to some religious nutjobs who own our stock. You think BFC used me? They saved my granddaughter!"
"Not BFC, Bright Future, the parent organisation. They are pushing a transhuman agenda. You've given them the ultimate trojan horse."
"Get out. Just get the fuck out. You've gone fucking insane. Pay me off, otherwise this will be spilled across the media and you'll be a fucking laughing stock."
"Will we? Not a lot of people like the idea of transhumanism. People don't like change. People won't like at all the idea that this change is against everything they've ever known."

