
# Chapter 14

<span class="firstLetter">W</span>HEN I FIRST MET GRAY, I thought there had been a mistake. I was expecting a thirty-something year-old woman. Instead, she looked young, in her early twenties. In fact, she looked to me like a boy of sixteen. I held the same misjudged assumption as others, that is that she was transgender. "Nope." She was striking to look at. She had a lean and angular face, with bright, clear skin. Well muscled and wearing, usually, tight casual clothes, she looked to me the picture of a cliché lesbian. She denies that. "I like fucking men. I like working out. I hate dresses." She is slightly aggressive in body language and invasive of the usual norms of personal space. Her expression is calm, not friendly, but her words are invariably warm and pleasant and littered with expletives. She is highly capable and intelligent. I think she revels in her ambiguous personality. She doesn't want to fit in and doesn't want others to put in a particular box, either. Gray is an interesting woman: she sees the world differently.

"Hey, be happy with what you are," she told me, "you wanna be straight, fine with me; you wanna be gay, yep go to it. Just don't ask me to conform to either or neither. Okay? And, you're not my type, Charles", she smirked at me. The way she said was a challenge. "Now Melvin, you know him, he's definitely my type", she purred at me. "It's the power thing he has, we all love a bit of being told what's best for us on occasion. He still looks fit enough to give a lady a good workout." She laughed, her eyes fixed on mine. I had to laugh too.

It was warm, the day I met her. The South Bank was busy with tourists and office workers taking the scenic route. Gray was in black jeans and a tight white t-shirt that didn't quite meet the belt line. Her dark hair was pulled back into a short, stubby ponytail. She wore big, white, nineteen-fifties style sunglasses. On her feet were dainty black and white, slip-on pumps. She said she was keen to meet me again when I emailed her. Her response had come back instantly; at first, I thought it was an out of office notification. But, it was a relatively long and considered response to my questions. I didn't think she would meet me.

Gray and Melvin both gave me more time than I expected. Lia was closed and hard to speak to, that was no surprise, given she felt it was all my fault. Melvin had lost the most, materially, but it didn't seem to be an issue he dwelt on. I put this down to the fact he was wealthy enough not to care about the financial loss - he had 'fuck-you' money - and his predominant focus was on the care of his granddaughter. Now, Gray, she surprised me. I was the ENEMY. She was fully invested in the idea of transhumanism. She was not a silly girl who thought it was cool. To her, it was the only hope for the future of the human race. As she would say, "What had got people to this point will not get to us to where we need to go.

"The native tools, our minds - the hardware and software if you like - that were developed on the African plains, where we all came from, have not changed. They are now holding us back and carry significant risks to our future. Sure, we've created a great set of external peripherals, in our technology, but these have not changed the way we intrinsically operate. We need to modify the way our minds work. And the evidence points to the fact that our brains are competent in radical change. Look, visually blind rats in labs have learnt to use magnetic fields to 'see' when they were wired to use a neuroprosthetic geomagnetic sensor. The brain is not hard-wired, it is plastic, moldable stuff that adapts. Look at Sally Taylor, none of the stuff she's doing is hard-wired in her brain. She's learnt how to do it, some consciously, a lot subconsciously."

As she spoke to penny dropped, I got it. Yes, I *was* the enemy, I stood at the other side of the argument, and this woman was an evangelist. It was evident now I met her. She wanted to convert me to her cause! I asked her, "So do you all work for *Bright Futures*?" She shook her head and sat down on a bench overlooking the river.

"No, in fact, I know very few people within the movement that do. Don't get me wrong they make things easier for us when they can, but they are a corporation, their goal is to sell the neuroprosthetics they develop, and as it stands any chance they have, of even getting close to profit, is years away, possibly decades." She smiled at me, "Especially with people like you to deal with, Charles." The sun caught the buildings of the City of London opposite, glinting, then glaring back at us. "Like people everywhere, we are a varied bunch. We have those, like Lia, wannabes, who think maybe it's cool. Then there are the idiots, like Rob Andrews, who believe that they are ubermensch, probably with delusions of world domination or similar. There are the techs, like Dr Li who are committed to the concepts, but just want to make the transition as easy and risk-free as possible; and us. I guess there will be more like Sally too, but we don't know where these people will go; and we have no children yet, those who know nothing else but being connected." Gray stared out across the river, into the glare of the City.

I looked at her; I could see the metallic glint of the Gate beneath her ponytail. I said, "We are afraid of you, Gray. People do not like change. And they like being an individual, and your goals are to remove that. Much of what you see here," and I swept my hand along the river bank as if lifting up the City beyond, "this came from the ideas of individuals, bright sparks. I know that once that is lost only mediocrity is left, tired conformance, producing nothing new."

"I am an individual," she said. "No one in the collective makes me conform. Do I *look* conformist? The thing that people miss when they are spinning up their terror towards us is that the concept they object to, 'the hive mind', already exists. *Hello*, it's called civilisation people!" She yelled that out, people walking by looked at us for a moment. "The concept that we lose our individuality is nonsense. We are already connected to each other. We live in vast communities, each with their identity, its consciousness. Each a hive, millions strong and producing a net product that is far greater than any one member could create."

"That is my concept of God, Charles. Not some dude with a beard on a cloud. But the consciousness of the community." She shocked me then. The only angle I was expecting God to come from, into this argument, was from me, to include those who felt that Gray represented an exclusion of God. She continued, "together we are a vast organism, not a collection of individuals. And our heroes? They are mythic, our geniuses metaphysical; they are all just simple examples throw up, by chance, to help our small minds comprehend the progress we are making."

"Progress is not due to the genius of individuals; that is an almost laughable concept when you think of it for long. We don't find some lost tribe in some jungle somewhere who has nuclear fusion reactors due to the guy in the end hut, who is a whiz with maths and engineering. Or some hermit in the mountains who has surpassed the artistic achievements of Rome, or China or Twentieth Century America, because he is great at telling a story or a dab hand with a brush. Sure we love a hero. But the individuals we believe are the spark of civilisation and have driven our progress, are impostors who take ownership of the achievements of the community they dwell in. Edison, Einstein, Jobs or Oppenheimer, each is like an ancient king attributed with an invention by scribes who wrote nice and straightforward histories: they tell us an easy lie, but the truth is that many did the work, and these only presented the result. We love the concept of course; it paints for us the art of the possible; that, if we all work hard enough, and with each other, we may be the next Newton, the next Gates, and own the result. But at the end of it, it is a fraud. All invention is the work of God: the God we all become when we all are connected." Gray fell into silence. A man and a girl stopped in front of us. He lifted her up onto his shoulders so she could see across the river, at the City on the other bank, and they blocked the reflected glare of the buildings opposite. For that moment, an uneasy tension sat between us there on the bench.

I watched the streams of people walking along the river bank and across the footbridge further down. I saw something then, beyond, in that scene. At a distance those people appeared uniform, their actions following a collective trend. They moved with a loose purpose, not random, not chaotic. Only when one of these walked close to us did the person emerge, the detail, the individual. Maybe this was what she meant. I was not so sure.

"People need geniuses, Gray. They need leaders. People love to follow. Without that we are just wandering, all of us at the whim of Fate. Or whatever you want to call it. Your way leaves us nothing under our control; none of us are of any significance." We lapsed back into silence. There was an unbridgeable void between us then; I understood nothing of her perspective. I just watched the people swirl about us. The father and daughter moved on and we were, once again, lit up in the glare from the City.

"What has being connected meant for you, Gray?" I broke the silence. She turned to me and brushed off some dust on the bottom of her jeans and from the toe of her shoe. Her sunglasses were so dark I couldn't tell if she was looking at me or not. "I'm not giving you my life story Godwin," she said, still looking my way. "I'm not asking for that," I said. "I want to create a story, for me to get a better picture of how this works. Maybe, so I can dispel some of the fears. I need to know how it works." She laughed an easy laugh. "Let's walk," and she got up and started walking down the river. Her movement was fluid, sliding along almost in time with the ancient river at our side. As I walked alongside, her shoulder touched mine. More than once, the back of her hand brushed mine, as it swung in time with her stride. 

"I've never been easy with words, Charles. Oh, look I've got a great vocabulary and all that, it was just it was always an *effort* to speak to someone, physically. I'd fall into silences or mumble because the physical effort of actually speaking used to wear me down. I read that article about the stuff *Bright Futures* was doing, and I signed up to their test programme.

"Nothing happened for nearly two years. Then I get this email, to get in touch. I was on the list. I was in the original cohort of the study. They flew me out to San Francisco and poked and prodded me to see if I was healthy. Then a week later I signed about a novel's length set of papers, signing my life away, and all that. The next day, they shaved my head and stuck a *Gate* in. Easy as that.

"There were five of us in that first study group. Two ladies and three gents. It was pretty boring stuff at first. Crappy activities like moving a cursor on a screen, playing Pong, for fuck sake. The fear, at first, was about sensory overload. But that was bullshit. All five of us knew that. The brain is overexposed every waking moment and never skips a beat. Anyhow, we were all bored and spent a lot of time together. Bright Futures' campus was in the middle of a parking lot in San Carlos, south of San Fran. There is, like, nothing there. It's the 'burbs, and there are not even any sidewalks. When we did go for a walk, these people would stare at us from their porches or out of windows. Mind you we all wore overalls and had skinhead haircuts, so we probably didn't look great." Gray laughed again. The memory was good; it was obvious to me. "The campus was pretty flash, though, with a splendid cafeteria. Great food, with salads and fresh fruit. No expense spared. See, when you spend a lot of time together, doing the same things, we got pretty close. We still are. Real close." Another laugh and a smile I could not fathom.

"Anyway, we were chilling out, after another gruelling session, wired up, playing Pong, when one of us, Simon said we should do something a bit more fun. Simon was one of these people who usually said nothing. I guessed at the time he struggled with speaking more than I did. He was sound, he sat there and said, 'This is bullshit. I'm bored out of my fucking mind here. Hey, I mean, we're not even connected to the fucking Internet. So, yesterday, when you guys were filling your faces, I called a taxi and went out. Went to this electronics shop I know. They sell spook stuff, you know for spying on your neighbours, or perving at the girl in the apartment opposite. Anyhow, I made this.' And he dropped this cable on the table. We all stared at it. I picked it up. One end was a USB plug that would go into most phones, the other an odd plug, like those we saw in the lab. In the middle of the cable was a box, carefully covered in electrical tape. The cable was about six feet long. 'What's in the box?' I asked. Simon picked up the box and looked at it. 'I reckon it's just what we need, Gray. Hopefully, no one is going to get mad when they find this is missing.' Simon dropped another cable on the table. This one was straight from the labs. Bright orange, more professional looking than the first. The box at the one end had been cut open and the moulded plug cut off. It had been taped up, neatly enough, but the cutting had left the once neat construction looking rough. The orange cable also had a USB plug on it, it too had been cut off and reattached. Simon placed the two boxes next to each other. 'The box has a small video card in it. It is programmed to translate the signals into the Gate. They left the firmware on the video card so that I could copy it. It's all pretty open. Anyway, the programme is pretty simple, and me and the friend at the shop managed to reverse engineer it. We tweaked it so we should be able to get the box to translate IP traffic, using your phone as a mobile hotspot. Who wants to test it?'

"Everyone at that table looked down and said nothing. The idea of sticking in some hack-job cable in my Gate wasn't something I fancied doing. 'Okay, okay, I'll do it. Jesus, you're all pussies. No trust in anyone," Simon said. So we followed him to his room. He sat on the swivel chair all our rooms had. 'Gray, plug this in.' He handed me the home-made cable. 'Plug the right end in, okay?' He seemed so relaxed, so accepting of the risks. I slotted the one end into his Gate and turned it until I heard the familiar 'click'. 'Okay,' said Simon, 'here goes nothing.' He took the USB end and slid it into his phone. He closed his eyes. I was holding my breath. I glanced at the others in the room; everyone was staring at Simon, their faces a mixture of fascination and horror. Simon was still. I held myself still and watched to see his chest rise and fall. He was still alive, at least. His eyes opened. He pulled out the cable from his phone. 'Please, Gray, take it out.' I twisted the cable out and pulled it away. Simon stood up. He walked to his bed. Sam, the other lady of the group, took his arm and he lay down. 'Are you okay, Simon?' There was an edge of panic to her voice. We were are terrified. 'I'm fine. I'm exhausted. That was so very hard. But I was connected to the Internet.' Alan, the oldest member of our group, laughed first. 'What did you look at, Simon, *Pornhub*?' We all laughed.

"Alan was the best software developer in the group. He'd written firmware while working at some flashy places over the years, such as the likes of Apple, Tesla and Amazon. He was in his late-forties, bald and a bit fat. I can't think of anyone more 'geek' than Alan. He and Simon took the cable connector and made a work of art. Meanwhile, we all learnt how to connect. After a while, the initial exhaustion that slammed you flat each time you tried to make progress, lessened. Soon enough we could message each other, and friends and family without having to touch our phones. We kept it a secret at first from the Bright Futures technicians. We knew we had breached some their policies and our contracts. But it became harder to do. All of our scores went off the charts. Anything they threw at us we could do. After the effort of manipulating a means of interaction with the Internet, their stuff was so simple. So we told them. Well, Sam did. Fed up with more repetitious tests in the lab, she pulled out her cable and plugged herself into her phone. She sent all the lab techs a message, right there, right then. '*See no hands!!*'"

We had walked a long way down the South Bank as Gray's story had unfolded. We were now in the old part of London and beginning to press towards Tower Bridge. The sun had started to slip across the sky. A pub's occupants spilt across the footpath and laughed raucously, filled with beer and sun. "Where do want to go from here? I'm hungry, do you want something to eat? I still want to know about *Consensus*." Gray looked at the pub and up at the bright sign above us, filled with light blue shirts and chinos and sun-red faces. "Not here, though, please," she said. "I'd expect somewhere classy from a man like you Mr Godwin."

We walked up to the road behind the pub, and I went to hail a cab. A car pulled up next to us as I went to raise my arm. The door opened, "Welcome Gray, please can you tell me your destination?" the vehicle said calmly. I looked at her; she said, "what? I called it a minute ago. You said you were hungry." We laughed and got into the car. "Can you take us to Great Portland Street," I told the car. To Gray, "I hope you like curry." The car pulled away and calmly sped through the streets of London. It crossed the river. I could see down its length, its surface now red and purple, blazing the path of the sun.

The car slid up Great Portland Street, then pulled over and the door silently opened, and it said, "Gray, your account will be debited for twelve pounds and sixty pence and will be charged in US dollars on your statement. I hope you have a good day." We got out, the door closed and the car pulled away, merging effortlessly into the traffic. "Can you remember the cabbies?" Gray frowned at me. "Perhaps not. Cabbies are, were, London taxi drivers. Here they used to have to do this test, called 'The Knowledge'. They did some scientific studies of it. Debunked the idea that our brains stop developing when we reach about twenty. These cabbies brains were hugely different after learning all that information on how to navigate London streets and what was the quickest route from one place to another. You used to see them whizzing about, in all weather, on scooters, learning the streets. Sad really. They've all gone now." As I spoke, we had walked down a side street and into a cobbled mews, closed at the end. Halfway along I stopped outside a door. Above, a camera flashed a small green light. The door clicked open. Inside, we climbed a staircase, and it opened out into a large apartment. "Is this your place, Godwin?" "It is," I told her. "I told you, you weren't my type." I smiled, "I know, but you said to take you somewhere classy: my home." I theatrically spread my arms out to take in space.

