
# we are connected

I had the fish masala knocked up in no time. It was a dish I enjoyed cooking, as well as eating. In a rice cooker some basmati rice cooked. I rolled out some dough I had mixed, and cooked plain chapattis on a hot frying pan. While I cooked, Gray lounged on the sofa with a bottle of beer in her hand. Somehow, I could tell she was not alone. "Shall we eat, Gray?" I loaded the table up with food. I was pretty happy with it. "Is it good?" I asked, almost as soon as I had dished up. "Hey, give me a chance, Charles, it looks good though, I wouldn't have thought." She scooped up a piece of fish with her bread. "Hmm, hmm, yep, that's good." She ate quickly and neatly. We didn't speak much. I was pleased the food had gone down well. She sat back and sipped from her beer bottle. "Let's go and relax." I gestured at the dishes on the table, "this can wait." I grabbed a couple of beers from the fridge and flopped down on the sofa alongside Gray. "Let's continue then," she said, keen to finish her story. I settled back and relaxed. 

"All of a sudden, the five of us there had a purpose. We'd made the situation fun. The monotony of the trial was broken. Of course, *Bright Futures* was initially a bit pissed at the whole Internet connection to the brain thing. We were messing with their experiment; all their carefully controlled data was now frankly useless. But, after some time, they came round, maybe they were bored too. They looked at the cables, and worked with Alan and Simon on the firmware. It was all going pretty well and we were buzzing on the possibilities that came from having this chunk of metal glued to our brains. We spent our time, improving our on-line skills, or just coming up with ideas. Brandon, the other member of our little gang, floated the idea of us directly connecting. Until that point we had become pretty good at surfing the Internet, but I suppose, we weren't really any different in the way we used it from anyone else, just faster. Brandon thought if we could push the raw data through a connection, without it being translated to IP, we could get more through it. Brain to brain so to speak." 

Gray laughed, as if she were sharing a private joke with me. "It's pretty basic computer science really," she continued. "One system interfaces to another generally through an agreed means of translation. This is fine, but limits the scope of what can be shared. Add new types of data in one system and you may not be able to share it with another, not without first changing the translation layer. So, change becomes expensive and then change doesn't happen. Now, if we could know that both systems were identical, with the same processes and architecture, we could lose the translation layer entirely. The data could be raw and not narrowed down by rigid translation structures. Surely, one brain could interpret data from another brain, if you can get that data into it.

"Then, one morning, one of the *Bright Futures* techs came to see us. She was all excited, in one hand she held one the cables we were using to get on-line. In the other a flat round lump of metal, about the size of a hockey puck, about three inches across. 'Who wants to try this bad boy?' She said to us grinning. 'So, you can have this,' and she held up the orange cable we were so used to dragging around, with its box and the metal snap-clip we used, to clip to our shoulder and prevent us ripping the Gate out of our skulls when we did inevitably tangle ourselves. She let the cable ends hang onto the floor. 'Or this,' and holds up the puck. The technician, Siobhan, had managed to make the cable wireless and connect to a wireless data connection. 'So, you want to carry on like tethered cows, or be mobile?' We were so goddam excited, we were like kids in a toy store.

"Sam volunteered, of course. Siobhan removed an inner part of her *Gate*, the data socket and screwed in the *Puck*, as we called it. She pressed a button, and a tiny light came on. 'Listen, there's a 100Wh battery in there. If you thrash it, both the battery and the video card inside will heat up. So you'll basically cook your brain. Have fun, people!' A huge grin spread across Sam's face. She span around, laughing. Each of our phones pinged as messages hit them. ``Look, no hands, no cable. It's magic, mom!`` the messages read. Sam was on-line. She could go anywhere now and be connected. She then said, 'Jesus it's heavy though. I'll end up with neck muscles like Gray, carrying this around all day. Good work Siobhan, but it needs work. I bet we don't need that fancy high density battery, for a start.'

"So, we had a means to connect, without trailing big-ass cables behind us. Siobhan, Alan and Simon worked on 'Puck' designs, and we each took turns in trying out the new, improved models. Within a couple of weeks, we'd got the size and weight down so even a pencil-necked chick like Sam could wear it for hours without discomfort. The battery would last all day and we would only take it out at night to sleep. Of course, in the next couple of years they have shrunk even more. See?" Gray turned her head from me and tugged free the stubby ponytail. She parted the hair and there was the *Gate*, a smooth, grey metal ring that rose less than quarter of an inch from her scalp. Protruding another eighth of an inch, maybe less, was a smooth domed insert: the wireless connector. It was really very neat and unobtrusive. Gray pushed in the dome and turned it. It popped out and she pulled it from the *Gate*. It was about the size of the tip of her index finger. It was smooth and slippery, with no obvious markings. "Imagine, this, but the size of a ice hockey puck and weighing, like, six ounces! Those early ones really did suck. I can even sleep with this in. And the battery lasts most of the week - similar to your mobile phone."

I was fascinated. "May I have a look at your *Gate*, Gray?" She turned so I could see it better. It was so neat. "Given it goes all the way into your brain, how do you keep it clean? Why doesn't it get infected or sore?" Gray turned to look at me and pushed the connector back in with a audible click. "The prosthetic, the *Gate*, works just like the way they attach new artificial limbs to people. The titanium alloy body attaches directly to the bone. Bonded to that is a metal-matrix cap that is porous, so the soft tissue and the skin actually grows into it. This creates a natural living seal, so no bugs or alike can get in. It is similar to how deer antlers work: below the skin the metal is porous, above it super smooth. As clever as all that is, you still need to take some care, of course, but it's pretty robust tech." It was impressive and not at all like the kind of thing that you'd have seen in old sci-fi movies - horrific looking lumps of metal that burst angrily from sore and swollen skin. No this looked jewel-like in comparison. Once again my hard held prejudices were challenged by what I saw. "Sorry, Gray, please continue," I said.

"Anyway, as you can imagine, it didn't take long for us all to start thinking about Brandon's direct connection idea. The inconvenience of the cables meant that we hadn't really thought about it too much. To do so, with cables would need some kind of physical router between us. It would be ridiculous, with even more tripping and tangling ourselves up. But now we could interface directly; the routing could be done wirelessly. Sam, as always, was keen to give it a go. She and Simon connected. It was much easier than we had thought it would be. With a couple of firmware tweaks Alan had made, they were interfacing without any significant translation. The look on their faces. I swear it hit Sam right in her lacy panties, the rush! Their eyes were dilated, they were breathing hard, they were starting to sweat! It is funny really, looking back. Until you actually connect with someone else like this, it is very difficult to describe it. Some say it is like taking drugs, some like sex, but it's not like any of these. At all. I think it is more like, you know, how those religious crazies feel when the *Spirit* takes them. Trust me, all you life you want to be close to people. We are designed that way, as social animals. But we always carry fear with us: fear of rejection; fear of misunderstanding; fear of suffering. All that goes away with this," and Gray tapped the back of her head. "For the first time in my life I was close to people with no fear, no confusion of what they mean, no misunderstanding of what they want and need. Best of all, I didn't need to speak to those I connected with. Conversation was effortless and instant. It was beautiful."

Gray stopped. She sat there for a moment and then looked at me. "I wish I could convince you to try it, I really could. I know you wouldn't, though."

I brushed away the temptation, I stood up and walked over to the refrigerator for two more beers. I let the cool air ease the skin of my face. I breathed deeply, calming myself. "Can you really read each other's minds?" I asked, as I handed her a beer.

"No. Well, sort of, again, this is difficult to explain. The person you are connected to is open to you. You can feel them, feel their emotions as well as what they want to share with you. It's a lot of information and I guess you need to focus. Sorry, this may not be making much sense. You need to try not to think of what we consciously do in our heads as just internal talking, you know, speaking to ourselves, inside our heads. If you think hard about it, that's not what we are doing at all. The only times we do, is when we are narrating what we are thinking. Then, it's like we are a commentator at a sports game, we are explaining what is going on. What is *actually* going on is not speech, it is only *ordered* by our internal speech so we can share it, externally. When we are connected, this is what we can read, or rather hear, this commentary; but the underlying events are closed to us. At least right now. Does that make sense?" 

I nodded back at her, then rotated my levelled hand from side to side, "sort of," I said, echoing her own words. What I understood was that internal speech, the words we recite to ourselves, are not our thoughts. Language is not a native process, it is an interpretive layer over our conscious thoughts; it is an interface that provides sufficient ordering of thought to allow sharing. This means, even at a brain-to-brain level there is a separation of concerns: our thoughts remain our own, until we choose to interpret them for sharing. So, in simple terms, the typical ideas of *reading minds*, as seen on TV and in movies, are wrong, there isn't some inane chatter leaking from our brains; anything that can be understood externally is consciously formed. When you or I look at someone, and think, 'you are a dick', this thought is consciously created. Really, we mean to share it, but we choose not to form the words physically, we filter. Well, some of us do, some of us do leak our internal voice, and blab out anything and everything that is in our heads. What Gray described though, is that beneath these layers of interpretation, is pure thought. This is not language, it is a sea of emotion or feelings or things without names. This, I believe, is the kind of thought that some of directly tap into through meditation.

<!-- 
The following needs to be a concrete example, to make it easier for the reader to imagine - a good example would be an abstract version of Gray dealing with Charles.

need some jokes, need to tone down the rhetoric
-->
"Let me ask you a question, Charles," Gray said to me. "What do you do when you working on a problem? When you are thinking hard about, say, how to defeat these nasty enhanced humans?" I gave her a blank look, I wasn't sure what she wanted from me, I felt she was trying to be tricky. "I'll help you," she continued. "Let's say, you have a bunch of thoughts on how you are going to solve something: a plan, objects, actions and lists of possible outcomes. You then start to struggle the juggling of these thoughts, there are too many and you get distracted. So, typically, you write them down, to keep track, to help order things. Then you start to work through the problem. Then when the plan is clear and all the pieces ordered, you test it, still in your mind to see if it is viable. You find issues, faults, you go back over everything and fix up the problems, maybe, tweak your plan, swap out items in the lists you have."

Once again, I nodded at her, again, not sure where she was going. "The way I do that is radically different from you, Charles," she continued. I don't have to write everything down, I don't need to iterate over it all, shrinking it down, I just share out the problem. I only retain a small part of the whole. Others pull together the plan, others still create the lists and run the logical tests to see if it works. We each own a piece. Once it runs through well, we vote it as an action, and return the problem, as solved, back to the originator. See, we can all then specialise on what we tend to be good at, or what we like doing the most. For example, as an individual, I am a risk taker. The tasks that test solutions to problems would be done poorly by me. I am good at putting forward, owning, hard problems and executing them. That's why I was happy to see you Charles. Others in our group would rather not. I feel no fear that you could trick me into something I would regret, Charles. In reality, it is you, against twenty-six people, not you against me. I have at my back the wisdom of the crowd. And, a crowd that is building in size all the time. Once we reach a size of community similar to that of a large modern city, say three or four million, we will be able to solve problems beyond imagination. All of which can be done without bending a knee to *leaders* or filtering through a *committee* - the things that stifle the ingenuity of our present day communities. We will be able to do this through instant consensus.

"Don't look so terrified! There is nothing in what I say that should frighten you. As I have said, most of what we do, is done today. All we do is remove the waste. The waste of effort to placate the egos of those who manage to make themselves *leaders*, the waste of those whose voice and ideas are not heard, the waste of time in getting an idea, or a solution from one place to another, the waste of pointless generalism, the waste of one group telling another what to do and how to do it. The waste in our society is incredible, much is due to the legacy of how we reached this point, most is needless."

Gray left me speechless. That was not something that I was used to. We sat for a while, each sipping our beer. My mind was racing. Part of me drawn along with her enthusiasm and earnest excitement. Part of me was also terrified. If what she said were true, then it meant the end of the human race as we understood it. The world as we knew it would so radically change that it would be unrecognisable. What, I guess, lessened my roiling anxiety was her demeanour, her kindly tone and laughter. Her words could so easily have taken the tone of the pulpit, but they lacked a sermonising manner. They were, instead, delighted and matter of fact. Like a child describing something they had learned that they would not have expected, where for once their hopes were met.

<!-- Connected increases my sapience not my sentience. Look it up.

How connected consensus works. The analogy of the pull request, but in real-time and fast. The connection of feelings not just language. -->

