
# Chapter 17 

<span class="firstLetter">T</span>HAT MOMENT, incredibly, was the first time they had held each other for years. The hurtful words that usually rained down like bombs, when their defences felt threatened, did not fall that day. Instead, there was an awkward armistice between them. We all sat for a long while. I was largely silent. Meanwhile they rewrote their past, as blameless, so that they could anticipate a future without war. As they did so, Joan softened. I watched this melodrama like a voyeur would a smutty show. I felt shame at watching them, it was too private and intimate a thing; but, I could not look away, I was transfixed, thrilled, by their healing. And, just by witnessing, I was initiated into their secret coterie. I was given the honorary title of *peacemaker*, and with it came access I scarcely imagined. I asked to see them again, independently. They agreed. Some good had come of it, after all.

I went to see Joan the following day. She lived in an elegant apartment in Mayfair. I assume that, given the lack of any obvious job or husband, past or current, the apartment must be paid for by Melvin. And such as was the previous day's emotional battle and the gap that had been between them for so long, I was surprised. Maybe, it provided Melvin a decent tax break. Also, let me be plain, Joan had not entirely transformed. She was still angry about the fact Melvin had taken me to see Sally, without her knowing. She scolded me and warned me no to do anything with Sally without informing her first. "Was she awake?" She demanded of me. I told her that Melvin had said she was sleeping. I had noticed the camera over the young girl's head. Joan laughed. "He has no idea that man. I bet she was awake. She has done that to me. Kids love to snoop, and Sally is no different. She pretends to be asleep, but is listening or just watching you. As I said, she does it to me all the time."
    The bright paint on the walls, the flowers, the cards, they all made sense to me now. Of course! The crypt had a watcher, a ghost that watched for robbers, who would empty her living grave, and curse them, placing in their mind an idea that would cause them to diminish to no more than shells of their living selves. Those who were not robbers, like Joan, would lay out the flowers and the cards, like offerings to the dead. Sally would watch her, helpless. Sometimes, I would imagine, she would whisper to her mother. It was those words I wanted to here, though I feared that as often as not, Sally would be mute, and pretend sleep, rather than discuss matters with her mother.

Joan led me to a small kitchen. It wasn't used except for serving tea or coffee. I accepted the latter and Joan jabbed at some buttons on a machine, that ground and hissed and roared, to deliver a small, neat cup of foamy espresso. She say opposite me, at a small table on hard chairs. She looked even thinner than yesterday. Her arms were bare, with a bluish and mottled skin that clung to obvious bones. I felt the urge to cook for the woman, to stop her wasting away, but I knew that if I looked in any of the cupboards that surrounded us, I would find them clean and bare. She smiled at me, I jumped inside, wondering for a moment if my thoughts had actually left my lips. She fixed her eyes on me and began to unburden herself. She began to tell me anything and everything about herself.

"I have be honest with you, to tell you, Charles: I was not a good mother. It frightened me; everything about it filled me with terror. Nothing brought me the joy people tell you about; I only saw the harm that would come to her. She was a sickly baby, in and out of the hospital - she always had some illness or other, rashes, temperatures. They said there wasn't anything really wrong with her - they said it was just a virus, or a cold, or something. They told me not to worry! But mothers know, they know when something is not right with their child, don't they? I worried alright. I was right to, wasn't I?
    "Sally was a tough little girl though. Like when she walked. It was so early; it was like she wanted to terrify me. So, I had the whole apartment cleared. I taped packing foam on corners of walls or anywhere that was hard. I put cushions down everywhere. She still managed to find somewhere unprotected and hit her head. I stopped taking her to the hospital. She was covered in bruises. They'd have thought I had done it to her, you know, abused her." She stopped then and played with her coffee cup for while. Her faced frowned. 
    "I refused to have her immunised. I'd heard such bad things. There is so much we don't know about that, you know, the poisons they put in them. I met this woman, at the hospital. She was just like me, on her own, I think. Her boy was vaccine injured, she called it, he wasn't quite right, you could tell - it was horrible. There are all these things that harm us. I wouldn't let her eat anything I'd heard was dangerous - peanuts, wheat, fish, sugar; they were all hidden from her. But she still had the allergies. Her skin would break out. She used to get so wheezy at times. I kept her in, how these things damage your child. How could I protect her?" She stopped again, falling into a silence. Then snorted a short, bitter laugh. "God, looking back, the poor child was prepared for the way she lives now, wasn't she? She has always lived inside her head, she had to. 
    "That was why she liked going to her grandfather's house and staying with him. He let her eat crap and get dirty. She could watch TV and roll in the muck in that park near him. I wasn't there for her, to keep her safe. But it did happen. She wasn't safe. I did everything I could and it wasn't enough. She had died, you know, that day. They told me, her heart had stopped." Tears welled in her hollow eyes. She leant her head back to prevent them falling and sucked in a breath.
    "They brought her back. They saved her. I don't think I was ever happy about what happened to Sally. I mean after she was, you know, when she was revived. I know, I know, what mother could wish their child dead. But I had mourned. I had already begun grieving for her when my father had been convinced by that woman to let Sally have that operation. I was furious. I had him arrested. I hated him!" Joan fell silent often for long periods when we had met. It was as if she was searching for the right words, words that could describe the indescribable struggle of a mother losing her child. She had lost her physically to the virus; she had lost her mind to Melvin and the machines they attached her to.
    Then she said, "No. My baby girl has gone. I still have a daughter, but she is not the child *I* brought into the world. Not the girl *I* raised and loved. I mean, what kind of existence is it? What was she, my little girl or a machine? No, that girl has gone now; and I am hated for it, saying what I feel. I can see it in their eyes, in the way they speak. At best they pity me. Other people, I mean. I know my own father does that, pity me." She fell back into another reverie. I waited.

"That woman had come to me one day," Joan suddenly said. "You know that manipulative bitch DiCosta. She had managed to convince my father to attach her to the Internet, so she can have more to do, more to seek, something to distract her from her, how did she say it? Her 'predicament'." Joan laughed, a hard, bitter laugh. "I mean now she could watch YouTube all day instead of speaking to her 'stupid' mother! It did mean I got some sleep though." Sally's mother's face hardened further, a slight tension constantly played across her lips and nose now, as if she was hurting in some way. It did mean she looked at you as if you were beneath her. She did look a snob. Though I saw nothing that made her one. It was just a look on her face.
    "DiCosta was then all excited. Her Internet experiment was a big hit with Sally. But she didn't want to stop there. She wanted to conduct more surgery on Sally. I said no. Actually I said, over my dead body. But Dad was keen on the idea. I still think he was fucking that woman. Had to be. He was like her puppy. It was repulsive." She paused again, but this time as if regaining her wind for a final push. To get it all out.
    "So, I had an idea. Or I thought I did. I said they should ask Sally what she wanted. I said to them, 'we should all stop making decisions for her without even asking if she wanted them,' I told them. So they did. Of course, she was nuts for it. The brat knew more about the options than they did." She laughed again, this time there was tenderness in it. "She was remarkably well informed, she knew what she wanted. She wanted sight and hearing." Joan's voice cracked and her eyes pooled, wet and she sucked in air across her teeth. "She told me, she wanted a hug from me and be able to feel it."

A single tear at last broke the banks of her one eye. She pushed across her cheek and away with the back of her index finger. "That's really all I can tell you about that. Remember I didn't interact with Sally like Dad did. I've never been as close to her as he was. Even as a toddler, she would follow him everywhere, chattering to him her nonsense. That's not to say I didn't try. I did. I just didn't have the patience for it. All the tech." Joan's face crunched up in an ugly frown. "I just don't get on with *tech*. Never had, even as a kid, I never got Facebook or Twitter, all this *like*, *like*, *like*! It's just stupid. I remember people at school writing mean things about me. Dad said it was because I didn't think about what I wrote, in the first place. But Mum said it was the Internet, it made people mean, because they didn't have to look someone in the eye when they said something. And she is right, I guess. It's easier to say nasty things when you you don't have to say it them, when you are not in front of them, physically. That's right, isn't it Charles, you know that, I'm sure. Saying cruel things behind people's backs."

"Melvin has never spoke of your mother. Does Sally speak to Vivian often?" I asked her. "Ha, ha, are you fucking kidding. Let that bitch speak to Sally! Jesus, no fucking chance. Dad would go nuts." Joan laughed a hollow laugh. "But, Vivian, Vi, told me she spoke to her often. I'm confused." "She's deluded. The only person she speaks to is the Tescos delivery guy, who brings her her week's booze. Ha! I forgot you had gone there. I'd completely forgotten that you'd tried to butter her up in your little crusade. How'd that work out for you?" She stared at me across the table, silently considering something, then, "Let me tell you a story about my last visit to my mother. It was the day after the VR goggles incident I told you about yesterday. I was all fucked up, a mess. For some stupid reason I thought going to see my mother would sort it out. We love to punish ourselves, eh? You know, reminding ourselves that the world is fucked, and not the rosy, fucking fairy tale we want it to be.

"Anyway, I go and see her. It's about 10 o'clock in the morning when I go see her. I buzz the door intercom, but there is no answer. Look, I know she rarely goes out, so either the intercom is not working or she is drunk and asleep. Then, some old woman with tightly permed, almost orange, hair had come out of the lobby door and I went in and up in the lift.
    "It took nearly five minutes for her to come to the door. I had banged on the door and yelled through the letterbox. 'Mum, let me in,' I shouted, well whispered like. I didn't want a crowd, did I? Then the door opens. 'Joan! This is a lovely surprise. Sorry I was in the shower and couldn't have heard you.' There she stood, in her lurid pink and yellow dressing-gown. The one that gapes hideously. Her skin and hair perfectly fucking dry. Her face was all made up, but all fucked up and smudged. 'Come in, come in. Do you want a drink?' So I say, 'Tea. Do you have any milk?' I know she doesn't. 'Of course, I think. Let me check,' she says. She hustled down the corridor into the kitchen at the end of the hallway and then shouted back, 'No, love. Sorry. How about coffee then?' I say,'Okay.' I walked into the living room, not following her. The room is a tip, with magazines and free papers all over the floor. Imagine, Charles the flat is a boat and the furniture had slid from side to side, during a storm, that's what it looks like, all over the place. I've no idea what she does in there. There is a low coffee table close to the lounge chair she sits in, on it is a cushion with a bright knitted cover lined up with the chair. Across the table were drinks glasses and an overflowing ashtray. Opposite was this obscenely huge television.
    "Mother walks in with two large mugs of black coffee. I remember this, it's so stupid. She went to offer one mug to me, then hesitated then gave me the other one. I sat on the sofa. It's at such a weird angle, you can't even see that TV properly. Mum said, 'So good to see you. Do you like my new TV? Melvin bought it, I believe. Turned up one day. I told the delivery man to take it away, horrible thing. So vulgar! But he insisted and so here it is. How is your father?' I told her, "He's good. He's happy that we've managed to reach Sally and we can now communicate with her. Yesterday,' I was about to say, when she interrupted, 'Does he know you've come to see me?' I had to snap, 'who? Dad, it's none of his business who I see, Mum.' And she wasn't listening, was she, and just carried on, 'So you're not happy then. You only come to see me if you're unhappy. When you're happy and things are good, I never see you from one month to the next.' Mum sipped from her coffee cup and looked over it at me. She was baiting me. She was always trying to get me angry. Makes her feel better. Anyway, I knew what was in that cup, it wasn't just coffee. So just looked down at that horrible, thick carpet that needs a clean, and I thought to myself why did I go here. She carried on, poking at me. 'So, you're not happy at the situation you've got yourself in, are you sweetheart.' I give up, I just let it go and let us fall back into the same old routine. What situation, mum?" 
    "'Sally of course. You let them do that to her. How could you? You know it's wrong, poor baby. You've seen what they have been saying on the TV. I was talking to Mrs Hawkins downstairs - funny lady, younger than me if you can believe it. Well, she has her granddaughter around all the time, like I used to. I couldn't now could I, not now Sally is, well, you know.' She was on a roll now, relentless. 'It's not right, Joan. It's not natural. I mourned her when she died and now I hear she's back, on a computer. They say so on TV. It's more than I can take.' I had to crane my neck to look at this TV that was telling her so much, telling her stuff that I didn't know. It was a fucking amazing TV that, all all-seeing eye on the world. I told my mother, 'She didn't die, mum, for Christ's sake! She's alive.' But she wasn't listening and as usual I couldn't make myself understood. She just interrupted me again, 'I had a gentleman caller, Joan! I forgot to say.' I mean who says that? 'Gentleman caller' Nobody that's who. You'd think the woman was living in nineteen-fifty. She's sixty-two years old, she can't remember what it was like then, but she loved the idea. She said, 'More's the pity we're not, Joan. Those were better days, I can tell you.' Yeah, they were better days if you were some mean bigot like her. I said to her, 'Sure, you can tell me, because you were what, three years old?' So I joined her, in being mean. 'Not much has changed since then, I guess, just no one is about to pick up after you. God, this place is a pig-sty' That was it. This was how it always went. As long as I remember. Funny thing was she'd had a visitor, hadn't she Charles? She had more things to throw at me."

I remembered! I had gone to see Vivian Taylor the week before Joan had. It was over a year ago, I'd forgotten. And of course, Joan was right, the woman was a hideous, a nasty piece of work. I knew that pink and yellow dressing-gown too well. The one that 'gaped hideously', as Joan had put it. Too well - God! I was hoping to get some dirt on Melvin. Oh and I got dirt alright. And the Taylor family had ostracised it; Melvin had stuck her in a neat apartment in North London, out of the way, like those Gothic horrors where families had put the 'family secret' in the attic. The dirt was Vivian, or 'Vi' as she called herself. She was foul, flirtatious, mean and a drunk. I walked out of there feeling I needed a shower. I wonder if that was my nadir: going there, to see *her*, thinking I could somehow gain some advantage by seeing this mean drunk. I had sunk so low I think I had lost sight of where I wanted to go. I can see that now.
    "She loved you, she thought you were the best thing going." Joan continued. Rubbing it in. "Mum had all manner of new insults to throw at me after your visit. After I had been spiteful, she gone all in. 'Don't come the smart-arse with me, girl,' she'd said. 'You come here and laugh at me? You're disgusting, what you've done. Charles agrees with me. What a lovely man, the kind that would sort you out and your *daddy* issues.' I had stopped her. 'Who's Charles?' I asked. 'Charles Godwin, you must have seen him on the TV.' I told her, 'I haven't been watching much TV mum, I've been busy, if you hadn't noticed.' To be honest I hadn't heard of you, Charles, I really hadn't. Maybe I needed a ridiculously big TV to see you, to get you all in, to fit your ego in. Anyway, Mum just rambled on. 'I wouldn't know, sweetheart. I only know what is going on from the TV. No one tells me anything,' she said. 'Anyway he said that people were doing unnatural things. This was against nature, against God.' Christ, I remember that" Joan laughs a tight and bitter laugh. I said to her, 'God, really? Since when did you start believing in God?' So she said, 'There's lots of things you don't know about me. You think you know everything. But you don't. If you did you wouldn't have done that to my granddaughter. Charles said that you've been tricked. There is this organisation, Brighter Future they're called, who are trying to make new humans. An army of zombie-like people to take over the world. They have done this to Sally.' I was stunned. You've gotta realise, it's not like dealing with a nutter, when dealing with my mother. She know exactly what buttons to press. I said to her, 'What are you talking about? Fucking zombies - mum really?' She said, 'It's true, I tell you. Charles and some other people are trying to stop them before it's too late. If they don't, one day we'll all wake up and these people will be in charge - it's like Nazi Germany, these people are trying to make a master race.' 
    "She was on a roll now. 'How do you feel about Sally? Are you happy with how she is? You can't be. I'm not. It's horrible. That's not living. It's a computer game. Like those ones that kids spend all their time playing, rather than going outside and meeting real people. What sort of life is she going to have? None. What happens when she is a teenager, that's not long away? She meets no one her age. She can't, can she? She's a zombie. They can do some cruel things nowadays, in the name of medical science. Progress they call it. I call it abomination! Poor girl, she has become a circus freak. People are using her and you're letting them. She's just a science experiment.' She'd battered me to submission. As she always had. And as always, she put the boot in when I was down. She pulled her foot back and said to me, 'I wasn't much of a mother, but I'd never have allowed that. Not to my own daughter.'

"I stood up. The last thing I remember is watching her slide her hand down to the side of her chair and picking up another mug. I remember her swilling whatever was in it while staring at the television. I said to her 'I'm off, mother. I'll let my self out.' As she said was, 'Do that.' I left with the sound of the too loud TV coming through the front door. I haven't seen her since."

I sat there, opposite this think, fragile woman. All I saw was a broken thing. She had no one to turn to. I felt awful. I felt shame at causing this. "I'm sorry, Joan. I am truly sorry."
    She looked back at me. Hers eyes were sunken, her cheekbones sharp. She said quietly, "Please, leave."
