
# Chapter 19

<span class="firstLetter">I</span> HADN'T SEEN MELVIN FOR A COUPLE OF MONTHs, since I saw him with Joan in fact. He hadn't called back when I had left messages. I'd even took the chance of 'dropping in' one day. The late Spring day was warm so I got out of the taxi some distance from his house and walked up. I banged on the door for an age. There was no one at home. No car parked outside. The blinds in the front of the house were down.
    For a while I thought that my last meeting with Joan had finished any chance of further meetings. She had been angry with me. I had dug up the past and exposed the cold dirt. She hated me for it. She had that sort of calm anger that would burn for years, smouldering away, preventing any chance at forgiveness. Though Melvin's relationship with his daughter was not an easy one, he was still her father. They were too different emotionally for them to be close. She was emotional, a highly strung woman who responded without any effort of thought or application of logic. Her father was the opposite. He was careful, at times even slow to respond to situations. His experience had taught him over the years that panic and quick response added nothing to an outcome. He told me once, events that seemed at first so important, so massively significant, would later evaporate; they were in fact non-events that fade from people's minds if one allowed them to do so. I hoped he would treat Joan's anger like this, but who could guess the father's reaction to the pain of his daughter. It could be, of course, that now Sally's health had improved and her connectedness was now assured and familiar, Melvin had bored with forking over the ground with me. Nothing new would grow there, he may have been thinking, so why use up any more energy. I too had given up. I probably had enough, but it all seemed unfinished.

Then he called.
    "Did you miss me, Charles?" Melvin's voice was his usual flat monotone. "I got your messages. I hadn't forgotten you. I was, um, out of the country. How are you? Come and see me, man. We've still lots to discuss I think." Melvin had called me. I was relieved. He was right, I had missed him too. I missed his company. I had come to think of him as my friend.
    "Let's go for a walk," he said when I got to his house the next day. "It's such a nice day. Too nice to be stuck inside listening to you wittering on about yourself." He laughed at me. We left the house and took the same route, he said, as he and Sally had that day she fell ill. "Let's go to the park, come on." he walked with a spring in his step. He seemed excited and as if years had come off him. We chatted about many things, our conversations swirling around something at the centre, but I was unable to see what. We walked toward the park entrance. The black gates were overhung with vivid green, the trees had burst out their leaves a few weeks before and they were still young and fresh. The gate banged behind us. Our feet crunched on the path. There at the bottom of the park the air was damp and cool. Above was a dark blue sheet of sky and we walked towards it, up the path, retracing the steps they had taken. 
    Near the top of the rise, we paused, both of us breathing hard and trying to calm ourselves silent. We sat and looked out across the houses, out towards the city.
    "I haven't been here since that day with Sally." He paused and stared into the distance. "We used to come here often. She had so much energy and I had to get her out of the house and let her burn some of it off. Joan used to hate it. She always had fallen over or stepped in something. See, she was always so well turned out. It was so important to Joan, how she looked, what she wore. We used to come here and she's had mud on her shoes and grass stains on her knees," he laughed. "Yep, Joan used to go nuts!" He fell silent again. I stared with him out across the roofs and chimneys. Then he laughed again, his face calm and smiling.
    "It is good to remember the good times," I said. "This is a nice place. It deserves good memories."
    "Sorry, what?" Melvin almost jumped, my words pulling him back from somewhere. "I'm sorry, Charles, I was miles away! Literally. You see, we are not alone." His face crinkled, his eyes were bright and twinkling, like they would have been when he was a young boy and naughty. He turned his head away from me. He pushed the still thick hair up from the nape of his neck, up to show the dull grey, metallic, object. A *Gate*. "Sally says hi!"
    I was appalled. My mouth was dry. I tried to swallow. Blood rushed in my ears. I felt that cold, nervous shiver across my chest. Melvin let his hair fall back and smoothed it over the neuroprosthetic device. I could not believe it. He turned towards me again, still smiling, his eyes hunting across my face. I tried to calm myself.
    "It's okay, Charles." He raised his hands to me, reassuring me. "It doesn't hurt. I went to Shanghai to see Dr Li. He's had a hard time for the last couple of years, as you know. But he's okay know and picking up where he left off. He is a lovely man, you would like him I'm sure. He is so very calm. I thought he was like a cuddly teddy-bear.
    "I know what you are thinking, Charles." Then he roared with laughter. "Oh God! Your face, it's a picture. No I don't mean I can read your mind! I meant, I'm sure you are wondering what was I doing. You think I have gone over to the dark side. Yes?"
    "Well, yes. If you put it like that. I thought you were a good old technophobe, like me. And now, here you are: *connected*, part of the new breed, leaving us plain old humans behind. I really didn't expect you to join the ranks, Melvin. I am shocked, I really am."
    "What else could I do? She was so alone. Then she started to connect to some of the others, like Gray. She blossomed. Suddenly she had company. It was marvellous. Listening to her try to tell me what it was like and then that she couldn't really explain; the only way was for me to try it. She is a great saleswoman! I wanted to be close to her again, spend real time with her again, like when we used to come here. Just her and me." Melvin paused, his eyes far out into the distance. He smiled. "Sorry, I'm still getting used to it," his hand went to the back of his head. "There's a lot going on, see. Anyway, where was I? Oh, yes. Sally convinced me. It wasn't hard. I am old. The company has gone, the only thing I have that I really enjoy is speaking to her. This was the next logical step. I can help her now, like a good grandad. I can take her places and let her see. She can even feel what I feel, to a degree. It's hard to explain. 
    "I went to Raphaella first. I would have thought she would have been keen. We would have been her little *Bright Futures* family. But she was hard against it. I mean, not against the technology, but against me having one inserted. And not because of my age or anything - I'm actually very healthy for my age the doctors have said. No, because it was me! I found out then that Raphaella was in love with me. God, that sounds conceited. We were, are, a thing; you know, an item."
    "I know. Well, I guessed as much. Joan was sure enough. She says you are Raphaella's puppy!" He laughed, I laughed and relaxed a little.
    "Raphaella was the only one there. When I was arrested there was no one about me. No family. Joan was the person who had me arrested for Christ's sake! I had even lost Sally. But Raphaella stayed. She risked a lot for me and Sally. Still does. We spent a lot of time together. She's smart and, you know, good looking. It just kind of happened. But I have to say, I thought it was, how can I say this? Convenient, I suppose. I was lonely, she needed me too. I really like her, I do, and respect her. I find her sexy. But love? I don't know, I'm just out of it I guess. What with everything that has gone on. I thought she felt the same. We weren't in each other's pockets. See, she can be quite cold sometimes, ruthless. I always supposed that I was just convenient too."
    "So she refused for you to have a *Gate* attached? Because she *loved* you?" He nodded. "People are always surprising, I guess. I have to agree with you. She is not the sort of person that one would imagine loving oneself, if you know what I mean. She would love someone else, sure, but not yourself. She would be always someone else's"
    "Yes, exactly. In fact, I thought she had a *significant other*, back in the States. I just supposed she would. You don't look like her and not have someone. I just didn't, couldn't, imagine that someone would be me."
    "And that was the only thing that prevented her from agreeing to you having it?"
    "Yes, well, that and what she thought would be even more bad publicity. As I am healthy, there couldn't be any cooked up exemption allowing the surgery. See it's not licensed. It is only still in trial, and then not in the UK. I would have to go to the US and sign up to a trial, a new trial as there is not one running right now. She saw it as media fodder. So I said, I could do it on the sly. But she was adamant. She said she could not see what it would offer me. She said I didn't need it. I told her what Sally had told me, about *connecting*. She laughed at me, said, 'I hear that all the time from that early trial group, you know Gray and her gang. They are just evangelicals' She wouldn't have a word about it. She just dismissed it out of hand. It was as if to her what Sally and Gray and the others described wasn't real. She even said so, she told me that when the trialists were wired up when they were *connected* there was no appreciable change in brain activity. Or at least nothing more significant than when humans communicate normally."
    "That is interesting. Do you think what Gray and Sally was describing was just some kind of neurological mirage? Now you have *connected*, are they right?"
    "Yes. I mean, sure, Sally talked it up somewhat. She was selling the idea to me, afterall. And what you have told me about the way Lia describes it, not so much. Gray is more relevant description. The problem is this - I cannot describe in words very well. It doesn't do it any justice."
    "And even given Raphaella's resistance, you did it anyway."
    "Yes. See, when we were talking of love, nothing comes close to what I feel for Sally. I would do anything for her. I would gladly give my life for that girl." He drifted away again. His eyes lost their focus and fell far out, beyond the city and the people before us. I understood. All of this was being overheard. She was here. Sally was eavesdropping, like that day in her hospital room. Like kids do, she was silently absorbing the conversations of adults, filing them away to bring out later when they needed to act out similar scenes themselves. And now I guessed, the adult had noticed the child listening in on topics she should not and was admonishing her.
    "Gray told me that Dr Li was back. He's heard of me, or course. In fact, he'd already spoken to Sally. This was the thing, all these people she spoke to. She's hardy the typical eleven year-old though, I guess. He seemed like such a nice person. He didn't try to convince me or make me feel comfortable with the idea. We discussed some of the other 'integrations', as he called them. We talked about Lia and you, Charles. He was very well informed. He wasn't sorry about what happened to you, that you had been discredited. But he wasn't angry either. He knew that you had created the problems he had had with the authorities. He also knew that we meet and talk things through. It didn't seem to bother him either. So I went to Shanghai. It was all very easy. He fitted in and the following day I went back to my hotel and relaxed.
    "After about a week, it was all healing up well and I was managing to control things better as each day went by. I had reached out to Sally. She was so happy we could just communicate. You see, it is pretty much the same, just faster. There was no mechanical activity. No reading or writing, tapping away at keyboards or using pens: none of that. With some practice, you think it and it happens. I went back to Dr Li. He checked me over and was really happy with my progress. Using the *Gate* was still really clunky for me, even now. I suppose think of it like when you first learnt to drive, if you can, when all you could do was focus on steering, changing gears, indicating. After a while, he assured me that I would find it all second nature and that I would consciously think of what I was doing less and less. 
    "He then *connected* to me. He assured me it was the best way for him to check everything was working okay and help me use the device better. That was a rush! It is as if you can feel the person. But it's not really physical. It was emotional. It's hard to explain. Dr Li showed me a couple of tricks that will allow me to multi-task, speeding up my driving experience, so to speak. So I can walk along and still be in contact, but I'm still pretty rough at times."
    "I noticed. I thought you were being odd, you lapsed into silences and stared off in to the distance. that sort of thing."
    "Yeah, I still learning to drive. It's tiring too. It creeps up on you, not like a physical tiredness, if I've been doing it a lot, by early evening I'm done. I've fallen asleep on the sofa more times than I'd like to recall."
    "So you're *connected* to Sally? right now?"
    "Not right now, no. I can shut her out. She's nosy, like all kids her age, and she hasn't learnt what is and isn't her business. She was here earlier though. I like to show her things. I can become her eyes and ears. It's exhausting though." He looked tired, as if the words were wearing him out. The sparkle he had when I got to his house, earlier, had faded. 
    "I can see that," I said. "I can see you nodding off pretty soon."
    "You're right, let's walk back. I need a coffee and some food. The other thing that happens is that I am always hungry. Gray says it's because you're eating up all the calories with the extra work you're getting your brain to do." He stood up and started back down the hill. A small group of deer wandered back into the trees away to our left. It was quiet. Cars no longer went through the park as they once had. If you didn't look too hard, you could imagine yourself far from the city, miles from the mass of people that lived there.
    "What did Raphaella say when you told her that you'd had the surgery? What did Joan say?"
    "Joan was, well, she was Joan." He looked down and the gravel path and blew his cheeks out. "She wasn't exactly happy. No, she thinks everything is somehow about her, that my choice was a way of getting closer to Sally than she could. I haven't spoken to her since I told her. She was angry. Things were said."
    "And Raphaella?"
    "She is furious too. I told her on the phone while I was in Shanghai. I missed her and called her. I shouldn't have. I should've waited until I could see her in person. She hasn't spoken to me since." I swallowed the obvious joke about me being the only friend he had left. We walked the rest of the way back in without speaking. At his house, I hesitated, I had an urge to leave. Melvin looked tired. The brightness that I enjoyed earlier had gone. The questions about Joan and Raphaella had knocked the last wind out of him.
    "I should go. Let you doze off like an old man."
    "No, please come in. We can have something to eat. Please." He sounded almost desperate.
    "I'm meeting Susan for dinner," I lied. I don't know why I said it. "I haven't seen her for a long time. Sorry, Melvin, let's catch up soon."
    "Okay, sure." He looked crushed. I walked away, my head down over my phone, hoping that a taxi was near. I couldn't bear the idea that he only wanted me to stay because I was the only person left. All those near him had gone. The embarrassment at the loss of his company had estranged many of his friends. Now his *Gate* had caused those closer to him to turn away too. It left people like Gray and Sally. They were there, in his head, exhausting him. And it left only me. I felt for him then. He was a good man.
