
# Chapter 19
I REMEMBER THE MORNING WHEN SUSAN CAME to my apartment. I had got up late and hadn't had any breakfast or anything when the intercom started buzzing. She just pressed the button over and over. It was hard to ignore. I tried to for about five minutes, while I got myself together. I made a tea and watched her on the camera, thinking what to do. She kept buzzing. I hadn't spoken to her for nearly two years, in fact since the day she walked out on me after *the Interview*. I was angry with her for a long time; I mean she deserted me. She was my closest friend and she just got up and left. I had no other real friends, everyone had gone. But there she was, on my doorstep. 
    I went down to the door and opened it. "Can I help you Susan, you seem lost?"
    "Hello Charles, nice to see you too." She didn't smile. I felt like shutting the door. I really had liked Susan. "I need to speak to you. Can I come in?" I shrugged and walked back into the building and up the stairs to my apartment. I left her to come in and close the door herself.
    Upstairs, I made some tea. "It's been a long time Susan." She sat at the dining table, her coat still on, she pushed her bag across from her.
    "It has, sorry, I couldn't imagine that you'd answer the phone. It's just not like you, is it?" She was right, of course. I had been bitter. I'd have wanted her to call me; if she had I wouldn't have answered, just to punish her. She knew that. She probably knew me better than anyone else in my life. "Anyway," she continued, "it is probably better that I came to see you in person anyway. I'll just say it: Joan Taylor is dead. They found her body earlier this morning. Someone I know in the press gave me a call, I came over. Before anyone else."
    Dead. It just hung in the air. The word hit me, bringing the shock of adrenalin. A chilled tremble shivered through my body. I sat down in the chair next to Susan. A slew of thoughts came into my mind. I felt responsible. I had said some terrible things about her. I had not really tried to help and I could have. I thought of Melvin and how he would hate me. I thought of Sally, now without a mother. I thought of Vi and the hateful things she had said. I felt a overwhelming feeling of shame. Joan had been exactly the type of woman that people liked to hate. She had been wealthy, but inherited it. She had been well educated, but not intelligent. She had been a mother, but made difficult choices. I can chosen an easy victim to feed upon.
    "God." It was all I could say.
    "I'm sorry. I know you didn't mean for this to happen. She was a woman with a lot of problems. You can't take all the blame. She was unfortunate."
    "She was a victim. See, I got to know her over the last year. Amazing - I couldn't imagine that she'd ever want to speak to me. Melvin convinced her. When you meet her all you can feel is pity. She hated that too. But she was just so, phew, just so, *helpless*. Yes, that's the word, helpless. She was just pushed around by people - her father, her daughter, people like you and I. She felt left behind. She wanted to do the right thing, she really did, but everything she did was thrown back at her." 
    I sat there for a while. Susan didn't say anything. She was still in tune with me, like she always had been. "I'm glad you came. It's good to see you again, it really is. Thank you for coming. It's better you told me, rather than anyone else. How did she die? Do you know?" Susan nodded. She removed her coat and sipped her tea.
    "They think it was an overdose - anti-depressants. She'd been there for a couple of days."
    "Jesus. Where is Melvin? Was he there? I should contact him. What will he say? Fuck!"
    "Just text him. If he responds, ring him. Just say you are sorry."

That is what I did. I just sent Melvin a text message. Sad, I know. He didn't reply. Why would he? Would you? That was it, the story was finished; it was dead and not remembered. My grand plan, that Melvin and Joan would agree with what I wrote and the world would get to see it and understand it, was unravelled. Now, with Joan dead, Jesus, no one was going to even talk to me. Melvin wouldn't allow me to publish. Was it all now just pointless? I had learnt so much. Take Melvin, it would have been easy to paint him as some kind of oligarch, rich and powerful, without the limitations that hold back the average Joe. But he wasn't like that at all. I couldn't say anything bad about him. He became my friend and the idea that I will not see him again upset me. I liked him. And, I think, he liked me. We spent hours together. Only a part of that time was taken up with all this. Most of our time was just chatting, about everything and anything, and laughing! He was a funny man. See, no one can fix upon a single topic for long, it is unnatural. Even if this topic is vital, it is not possible to remain constantly fixated on it. An obsession is not fixation, it is the relentless return where all paths lead back to the topic. Melvin was obsessed with saving his granddaughter. He returned his thoughts to her frequently, but still had time for other people, like me. Even in times like that he was human enough to see me for what I am. My worry was that he felt I had betrayed him. The trust he developed was lost. I couldn't blame him. His daughter was dead. The easiest thing for him was to place that at my door. 
    The blame for her death would be the cost of the mistakes I'd made. I would have taken that too. But losing Melvin as a friend would be a price too high. I could not see any value in it. If I sat and focused on what had happened to Joan, how could I be actually to blame? Sure I said some shitty things. I pointed an over eager finger. But she made the decisions herself, even her death. I was only saying what everyone else was thinking. She was one of the legion of the self-entitled who believed they were owed something better than the lot they were handed. The irony was that she was already in receipt of more than the majority. She had some terrible luck. I am unaware of any providence that one can avoid that. If I had said nothing would that have changed her luck? I don't know.

Over a number of beers, then wine, I replayed these thoughts. Susan, as she had done for so long before, listened. It was circular. I'd accept my part in her death. Then I'd be upset at losing the friendship of Melvin. I'd question the blame I'd been given. I'd hate Joan. I'd feel pity for her. I'd think of the things I said. I'd repeat this, and each cycle I'd fail in gaining any insight that would allow me to 
    After a while Susan stopped me. "Charles, This is getting you nowhere. If you are to wallow in self loathing, you can do it on your own. My number hasn't changed. Give me a call when you've got yourself together. It's still good to have seen you again." She placed her hand on my shoulder. Picked up her coat and bag and left, down the stairs. I got up and watched her walk down the mews. It was only just after lunch. I opened another bottle of wine. I flopped back down on the sofa, the glass brimming, and wallowed.

I have learnt many other things since I'd last saw Susan. I'd met people that changed the way I saw the world. People like Melvin. And Gray, she was someone I wanted to dislike. She was the *enemy*, but I couldn't. I think I had a crush on her. Maybe more than that. I have never met anyone like her in my life. The way she was calm and reflective; the way she made me feel calm and reflective. The woman was a goddess; she is on a higher level than we are. Susan too, now she was back in my life, I know I loved her too. She was pure in her support for me and what we were trying to achieve. Nothing to her was personal, until it was. Comparing them makes me sad. I know I can have neither. I have treated people badly, I know that. And though I have hurt those two, Gray and Susan, less than most, still it is not enough. I am untrustworthy. They see the way I treat others and think to themselves that I would likely treat them the same. I love them nonetheless. I have to. I have to think that there is a future for me.

I see this as a beginning, not an end. And it is, in so many ways. The things I fought for, well, they are still there. Someone else can fight that battle, I am used up. And then, in the future that follows? After the struggle that *must* happen, does that future belong to likes of Melvin and Gray, or to those like myself and Lia? Where is Susan? Is it a *Bright Futures* future where the likes of Raphaella plays God to we mortals? Where in this future is there a place for people like Joan, or even Vi? Where is *my* place? What side will I be on? Will there be any sides?
    History shows that the ideas that really take hold and have endurance are not those that come in with a flash and bang. Instead they creep up. I have always thought that people are far too attracted to the notion that big events, big ideas and big people shape history. Sure they make the most noise and are easy to remember, but they never remain. Once, a meteorite hit the earth, and with it came a calamitous end to the dinosaur. It seems a monumental event, when simplified, one that changed everything. True, for the extinct species of dinosaur, it was significant. For everything else, the Earth, for the survivors, not so much. Dinosaurs lived on, as birds, and other species thrived. The huge impact crater was smoothed away by the inexorable effects of gravity, meteorology, geology and time, until today we struggle to find it. Time wears down mountains, uplifts seas, moves continents and extinguishes stars. There is no battlefield that is not grown over, submerged or built upon. There is no civilisation that has not crumbled to dust. It is the tiny forces that win out. The mindless micro effects that create the greatest change. Like gravity, a weak force, inconsequential when measured at an atomic level. Everything we know has it. When summed together it becomes the most significant force of nature, enabling planets, stars and black holes.
    Is there a new idea creeping up on us? One that will be to us like the meteor to the dinosaurs? No. It won't explode our world in a huge bang. It will slowly change us, without our noticing, tearing down the mountains of our culture, uplifting the seas of our individualism. Some of us will resist it, those of us that fear the change, or not comprehend it. But it will happen regardless. Will we who resist it be dinosaurs and those who embrace it be birds? Will they soar above us, away from us and look down on us as gods? I don't know. No one knows. I do not know what the future is. Nor what my own future holds.
    I do feel that my own future is missing Sally. I think that in future there is no Sally. In our future Sally is already in another future, she will be outside of our time. The horror of her life is a thing of the past; her life now, if that is how we describe it, is something else, something none of us who shared it can understand. She is now inscrutable, we cannot imagine or empathise with her thoughts as they are so different from us. She is an exotic intelligence.



