
# Chapter 20

<span class="firstLetter">A</span>FTER JOAN'S DEATH I HADN'T BOTHERED MUCH with the writing. I felt, what was the point? Afterall, the original agreement was that all the participants had to agree with what I said, that it was a reasonable record of fact, balanced if you like. With Joan dead and Melvin not contactable I had stalled. Three months after I had wrapped everything up I had a phone call.

It was Melvin. I guessed that he was mad at me because of Joan. I really hadn't expected to see him again, after that.
    "Charles, are you busy?"
    "I can't say I am, Melvin. I haven't heard from you for a long time. I am sorry about Joan."
    "Yes." Melvin confirmed he wanted to talk about something else. "I'd like you to come to the house if you would." It was a statement.
    "Okay. When?"
    "This morning? There is someone I'd like you to meet." He paused. "Good then. See you soon." Melvin hung up. My mind raced at the possibilities. It had to be some trap. Who could it be? He was obviously still furious with me about Joan. Gone had all the jokes and teasing that he usually threw my way. His voice was sharp, not the easy, almost slow pace, that he usually spoke with. I didn't understand. I started to write a text message to him, excusing myself. I couldn't get the words right. They were lies and they looked it. I felt cornered. I was angry. I thought of phoning Susan. Maybe she knew something. I had two hours to get to his, I didn't have time for all her questions.

I didn't send the text. I showered and took my time getting ready. It was getting late and I wouldn't get to Melvin's house much before midday. It was petty I know, but I was mad at him. I was mad at him because he was was angry at me for Joan. I was annoyed that he pushed me about too. The taxi was the usual efficient service. I arrived at twenty-to-twelve. I was sunny and the front of his house was hot, the bricks reflecting the heat. I stood there for a bit. I could feel sweat starting to trickle down my temples and tickle its way down my sides. I pressed the doorbell. The door opened. A voice from down the hall called.
    "Come in Charles. I'm in the kitchen."
    I closed the door and walked towards his voice. He was with someone. Who was it? Melvin was stood, his hip propped against the heavy wooden kitchen table. He had a coffee in his hands.
    "Want a coffee?" He gestured at me with the cup.
    "Sure. Listen, what's going on? I've got myself all worked up here. Can we discuss Joan? I know there is a problem, I mean I haven't spoken to you for a while. I'm sure you are angry with me." Melvin just stood there. I could feel the sweat dripping from my armpits, soaking my light grey shirt. Who would wear a light grey shirt on a day like that? I pinned my arms to my sides hiding the spreading stain.
    "Charles." Melvin laughed at me. It wasn't a kind laugh. "You always think it's about you, don't you. I'm always amazing by the fact. You have no concept that other people have stuff going on in their lives that does not involve you." He shook his head. He turned his back to me and fiddled with the coffee machine. His arms splayed out and he rested his hands on the counter top as he waited for the machine to finish. I stared at his back. I liked this man. But he was like everyone else, quick to judge; quick to make the wrong judgement about me. The machine stopped and Melvin turned. He smiled.
    "Look I'm sorry. I forget how sensitive you are." He handed me the coffee. "I've had a lot on my plate. Joan's death was hard." I started to speak. He raised his hand. "Look, I know you think I blame you. I did for a while. I blamed everyone. No one wants to outlive their own children, Charles. It's a horrible thing." He pulled out a chair and slumped onto it. He gestured for me to do the same. "Joan was troubled. She needed help and I didn't give it to her. Sure, on those black days she had, I'd ask her to go and get help, you know see a doctor, but she never did. She never much listened to me. You see, I wasn't around much when she was young. I left her to her mother, Vi." He snorted a derisive laugh. "She needed, needs, help too. Vi that is. The situation didn't help Joan. I thought that providing money and houses and holidays would be enough. I only realised this when Sally was born. That was too late.
    "So, no, I don't blame you Charles. I'm sure you know what you did. You know that you contributed. But, no, you're not to blame for her death. You'd be in a long queue if you were." Melvin rubbed his hands over his face and looked tired again, like the last time I saw him. I wondered how much of himself he gave to the chunk of metal in the back of his head. 
    "Anyway, enough of the gloom. As I said, I have someone for you to meet." He brightened and a wide smile broke across his face. The kitchen opened into a large dining area where we sat. Behind us was a conservatory with a terracotta tiled floor and wicker chairs with fat cushions. The conservatory was open and warm breeze came in. Melvin got up and stood at the edge of the patio. "Come on," he called out into the garden, "look who's here."

Beyond the patio was a large town garden, surrounded by red brick walls. It was designed to look bigger than it was, with trees and bushes creating hidden areas. A smooth bricked path wandered through the space, coming in and out of view. Around a corner came a wheelchair. Sally.

Melvin's hand lifted to mine and gently pulled it down from my face. I had covered my face in surprise when I first saw her.
    "Hello Mr Godwin." Her voice was almost a whisper. It was course and not that of a twelve-year-old girl. "I know a lot about you. Let's go in. It's hot out here. I could do with a drink. It's nice to be in the sun though." She smiled a kid's smile. It was crooked, her face was a little palsied. Her delicate frame was slumped in the chair, her thin arms resting on the chair supports. There were no obvious controls to the chair. It seemed to go where she wanted it to nonetheless.
    Inside the house felt cool. I looked at Sally as Melvin helped her with a drink, her hands clumsy with the straw that kept twisting away from her gaping mouth each time she reached for it. She had lost her hair. She wore a loose cotton bonnet. It was odd looking, the sort of thing a child would like because it was odd. The look was made worse by the head rest that pushed it up at the back. Her bonnet had a matching blouse. I could see at the top a thin scar running down her chest. Her bare arms were lightly pink from the sun. They had pock mark scars from the endless needles and IV lines. She wore bright red shorts. Her legs were so thin and white that it looked like the colour of the shorts had bled down her thighs where the sun had made them pink too, like her arms. She wore huge sunglasses. The lens of one was thick and it had a small red light on the edge of rim. Her face was pale. She none of the corpse-like colour she had when I saw in the hospital, but she was still pale. Her skin was almost translucent and the bluish veins beneath could be easily seen. She was a girl of nearly thirteen but she could have been any age, physically, but the outlandish dress sense was that of a kid. She looked like she'd raided the dress-up box.
    "You don't say very much Mr Godwin. You are nothing like the person people have told me about. Smaller too, I think if I stood up, I'd only be slightly smaller than you myself." She laughed. It was a good laugh, as if everything was fun.
    "God. I'm sorry, Sally. It's so good to meet you at last." I blew out my cheeks. "What a huge surprise. I didn't realise you we, erm, awake."
    "Oh, I've been awake a long time. You mean up and about."
    "Yes. It's great to see you up and about. How do you feel? How did it happen?"
    "Do you believe in angels, Mr Godwin?"
    "Um, I can't say I do, Sally."
    "Ah, well. I do. My mum is an angel. See, when I heard she had died I was sad. Then I realised she wasn't really dead. She had become an angel."
    I glanced at Melvin, who just smiled and gestured for me to speak with Sally. "Do you speak to her, Sally?"
    "No. Silly. It doesn't work like that. Mum died and when I realised she was an angel my body started working again. The doctors say it was the shock." She wobbled her head in a very teenage way. "It wasn't shock. Sure I was sad, but Mum wanted me back physically, so I was. Sort of."
    "Sort of?"
    "Yes." Her voice was harder, frustrated. "Look at me. It's not exactly ideal, is it? But at least I can get about. Grandad is getting slow *and* he sometimes blocks me out so I can't see. Now I can do it myself. Of course, I can still see in other ways. Like when you came to the door. Why were you just hanging around out there? Gray said it was because you were scared of Grandad. She said you are scared of lots of things. Grandad won't hurt you. He says you're not a bad man. He likes you!" She laughs again and Melvin joins her. He rests his hand on the tiny shoulder of his granddaughter and his smile is wide and his eyes glint with joy. "Gray likes you too. She says 'Hi!'"
    How many were in that room. I didn't know. I felt the fear creep up on me at the thought. I didn't want to know.
    "Are you staying for lunch? I still have to eat baby food. It's gross. But it's better than nothing. At least it has some taste. The doctors say that my stomach will take a while to get back to eating proper food. I make a mess when I eat too. Grandad feeds me. I think he likes it. I'm his baby granddaughter again, see." Her hand went up weakly and pulled the sunglasses from her face. Her one eye was discoloured, the one behind the thick lens. Her eyes were bright though, and twinkled the same joy as her grandfather. "I poop in a bag too."
    "Sally!" Melvin's face was gently cross. "Please let's not say stuff just to shock people."
    "Mr Godwin asked me how I was. I'm telling him. I'm *up and about*, but I poop in a bag." She giggled. For the first time she looked her age, even younger. She was being naughty. Melvin shook his head and looked at me and smiled. He had his little girl back. She wasn't the same, but she was his.
    "I remember you from the hospital. You know, when you came to see me. You two were sooo serious. You were all quiet and talking about stuff. Mum knew I used to watch and pretend to be asleep. Grandad didn't, did you?"
    "No, you monkey. Snooping, listening in on other people's business."
    "Mum knew. She knew when I was really asleep too. That's when she used to wash and dress me. She used to mad things with my hair too, to make me look 'pretty'. Then it fell out. I think it fell out because she was always brushing it." She paused, and glanced at Melvin. "Only kidding! She is an angel.
    "So, Mr Godwin, are you going to finish the book? Nobody will read it. See, online, everyone likes an argument, particularly about stuff like this," she gestured up at her head with her hand. "No one likes to argue about me though. I'm just a kid. It makes you look mean. Even the trolls don't do it. Well some do, the sicko ones, but they always get banned anyway.
    "Your book will be all, 'Oh my God! The horror of the cyber people!'" She was mocking me. She was much older now than thirteen. "No one will read it. No one cares."
    "I hope the book isn't like that, Sally. I said some not nice things before. I am sorry about that. I was wrong. I'm glad you are well and have left hospital."
    "But I'm not human, Mr Godwin. I'm a machine." She stared at me. Melvin looked away a slight smile on his face.
    "Yeah. I said that. As I said, I'm sorry. I was wrong."
    "They did stuff to me, Mr Godwin. Some things I didn't really want. You were right there. They had been carried away. My Mum said they should ask me. They did, but not really. At the time I just wanted to be able to see and be with people again. Still, I wouldn't have them take it out now. I can remember things much better. Can you speak Chinese?"
    "A few words, no not really."
    "I can. Dr Li taught me. I am fluent. I learnt it in a few days. I'd lose that if they removed the stuff they stuck in without consent. Grandad says I like an old puppet TV show, *Joe 90*!" She laughed. I didn't know what to say. Again she had moved away from her actual age. She was precocious, sure, but not in that irritating way, say like home-schooled kids were. She just had a huge amount of knowledge to draw on. 

Melvin made a simple lunch. Sandwiches for us and something brown and gloopy from a packet for Sally.
    "See, gross!" She was right. Her food looked unappetising. Her imprecise motor skills meant that much of it went on her chin and down a bib Melvin had hung around her. Eventually she gave up and let her grandfather feed her.
    "You're getting better. At least you can get some of it in your mouth now. We need to get a dog, to clean up after you." He laughed. It was a cruel joke to the outsider, but Sally laughed. We ate the lunch in silence. Sally too. She seemed to be thinking or speaking with someone. I didn't ask. 

After we had finished Melvin lifted her up and carried her up the stairs. I waited. It was as if I was like a child myself at that moment. Others in the world carried on, their actions unexplained, a secret code went between them. I saw then the possibilities in the new world that was dawning, whether we liked it or no. Those who were *Connected* we in almost constant communication. Those who were not were excluded. Over time I could see a future where the two parties rarely engaged, each would frustrate the other. We would become like children to them. They would sigh at our constant requests for explanation and elaborate, long-winded speech. I felt that then. My frustration at the silent conversation that surrounded me, like the coded words of parents who wanted to say something important but obscure its meaning from little ears. I felt insulted.

Melvin returned. "Sally gets very tired, physically. She's never been a kid for napping, even as a toddler. Now soon to be a teenager, she's having a nap twice a day. She sleeps fourteen hours at a stretch at night. The doctors say she is healing. She gets stronger every day."
    "Will she walk again?"
    "It is unlikely. But then who knows. She says she misses being able to run about. She manages the park though. That's nice, to go back there. Particularly now the weather is so good."
    "Those things she said, about *Bright Futures*. Did they do that? That's abuse. Heck, I was right, they were experimenting on her."
    "Hang on. She is angry. She's nearly a teenager. As she gets healthier, she gets more of a teenager, and she gets more angry. At everything. She wants friends. She wants to go to school. She wants to be *normal*. Right now, she can't. But, as she said she wouldn't remove anything. The devices are part of her now. She's spent a long time relying on them and they work better than her healing body."
    "But she said they did stuff without her consent."
    "I know, I know. I was there. We were all desperate. I think we were all close to the line. You know, the ethical line. People may have stepped over it for a while. Maybe."
    "*Bright Futures*, you mean?"
    "I mean all of us, Charles. You too, remember. None of us come out of this with no blame. As the sheriff says, 'There ain't no white hats in this here town!'" He laughed. He stuck out his hand to me. I took it and he placed his other hand over the top on mine. "It's good to see you again. Sally's right, I like you. God knows why! But I do. She likes you too. And we all enjoy her torturing you."

                                        THE END



