
# Chapter 21 - The beginning

I remember that morning when Susan came to my apartment. I had got up late and hadn't had any breakfast or anything when the intercom started buzzing. I ignored it for about five minutes, while I got myself together, watching her on the camera, thinking what to do. I hadn't spoken to her for nearly two years, in fact since the day she walked out on me after *the Interview*. I was angry with her for a long time, I mean she deserted me. She was my closest friend and she just got up and left. I had no other real friends, everyone deserted me. But there she was, on my doorstep. 
    I went down to the door and opened it. I said to her, "Can I help you Susan, you seem lost."
    "Hello Charles, nice to see you too." She didn't smile. I felt like shutting the door. I really had liked Susan. "I need to speak to you. Can I come in?" I walked back into the building and up the stairs to my apartment. I left her to come in and close the door herself.
    Upstairs, I put some tea on. "It's been a long time Susan." She sat at the dining table, her coat still on, her bag pushed across from her.
    "It has, sorry, I couldn't imagine that you'd answer the phone. It's just not like you, is it?" She was right, of course. I had been bitter. As much as I'd have wanted her to call me, if had I wouldn't have answered, just to punish her. She knew that. She probably knew me better than anyone else in my life. "Anyway," she continued, "it is probably better that I came to see you in person anyway. I'll just say it: Joan Taylor is dead. They found her body earlier this morning. Someone I know in the press gave me a call, I came over. Before anyone else."
    Dead. It just hung in the air. The word had hit me, pushing a shock of adrenalin through me. I sat down in the chair next to Susan. A slew of thoughts came into my mind. I felt responsible. I had said some terrible things about her. I had not really tried to help and I could have. I thought of Melvin and how he would hate me. I thought of Sally, now without a mother. I thought of Vi and the hateful things she had said. I felt a overwhelming feeling of shame. Joan had been exactly the type of woman that people liked to hate. She had been wealthy, but inherited it. She had been well educated, but not intelligent. She had been a mother, but made difficult choices.
    "God." It was all I could say.
    "I'm sorry. I know you didn't mean for this to happen. She was a woman with a lot of problems. You can't take all the blame. She was unfortunate."
    "She was a victim. See, I got to know her over the last year. Amazing - I couldn't imagine that she'd ever want to speak to me. Melvin had convinced her. When you meet her all you can feel is pity. She hated that too. But she was just so, phew, just so, helpless. Yes, that's the word, helpless. She was just pushed around by people - her father, her daughter, people like you and I. She felt left behind. She wanted to do the right thing, she really did, but everything she did was thrown back at her." I sat there for a while. Susan didn't say anything. She was still in tune with me, like she always had been. "I'm glad you came. It's good to see you again, it really is. Thank you for coming. It's better you told me, rather than anyone else. How did she die? Do you know?" Susan nodded.
    "They think it was an overdose - anti-depressants. She'd been there for a couple of days."
    "Jesus. Where is Melvin? Was he there? I should contact him. What will he say? Fuck!"
    "Just text him. If he responds, ring him. Just say you are sorry."

That is what I did. I just sent Melvin a text message. Lame, I know. He didn't reply. Why would he? Would you? That was it. The story was finished. My grand plan was that Melvin and Joan would agree with what I wrote and the world would get to see it. Now, with Joan dead, Jesus, no one was going to talk to me. Melvin wasn't going to allow me to publish. So all of this, all the effort, all the listening to people pour their hearts out - pointless. What have I learnt from it? At least that has value, to me at any rate. I learnt that people are more complex than I gave them credit. Like Melvin, it was easy to paint him as some kind of oligarch, rich and powerful, without the limitations of the average person. But he wasn't like that at all. He became my friend. The idea that I will not see him again is upsetting. I like him.
    Gray, I have a crush on her, at the least. I think, though, I love her. I have never met anyone like her in my life. The way she is calm and reflective; the way she make me feel calm and reflective. The woman is a goddess. Susan too, now she is back in my life, I know I loved her too. Comparing them makes me sad. I know I can have neither. I have treated people badly, I know that. And, those two, Gray and Susan, I have hurt less than most. Still it is not enough. I am untrustworthy. They see the way I treat others and think to themselves that I would likely treat them the same. I love them nonetheless.

To make this of value, I have to look to the future. I see this as a beginning, not an end. And it is, in so many ways. The things I fought for, well, they are still there, the war is to come. And then, in the future that follows? Does that belong to likes of Melvin and Gray, or to those like myself and Lia? Is it a *Bright Futures* future where the likes of Raphaella plays God to we mortals? Where in this future is there a place for people like Joan, or even Vi? Where is *my* place? What side will I be on?

My future is missing Sally. I think that in my future there is no Sally. In my future Sally is already in another future, she will be outside of our time. The horror of her life is a thing of the past; her life now, if that is how we describe it, is something else, something none of us who shared here can understand. She is now inscrutable, we cannot imagine or empathise with her thoughts as they are so different from us. She is an exotic intelligence.

...

History shows that the ideas that really take a hold and have real endurance are not those that come in with a flash and bang. I have always thought that people are far too attracted to the notion that big events, big ideas and big people shape history. Sure they make the most noise. And they are easy to think about. But they never remain. Once, a meteorite hit the earth, and with it came a calamitous end to one of the most enduring denizens of our planets: the dinosaur. It seems, when simplified a monumental event, one that changed everything. True, for the extinct species of dinosaur, it was significant. For the Earth, for the planet, not so much. Dinosaurs lived on, as birds, other species thrived. The huge impact crater was smoothed away by the vast effects of gravity, meteorology, geology and time, until today we struggle to find it. Time wears down mountains, uplifts seas, moves continents and extinguishes stars. There is no battlefield that is not grown over, submerged or built upon. There is no civilisation that has not crumbled to rock and dust. It is the tiny forces that win out. Gravity is a weak force, almost inconsequential when experienced at a component level. Everything we know has it. When summed together it becomes the most significant force of nature, enabling planets, stars and black holes. Our history is similar, the battle fields no longer show the blood of the fallen, our artificial ideologies, like religions, come and go.

Is there a new idea creeping up on us? One that will be to us like the meteor to the dinosaurs. It won't explode the world in a huge bang. It will slowly change us, without our noticing, tearing down the mountains of our culture, uplifting the seas of our individualism. Some of us will resist it. We will fear the change, or not comprehend it. Will we be dinosaurs and they who embrace the change be birds? Will they soar above us, away from us and look down on us as gods?






