I went first to see Lia. She had returned to New Zealand and picked up pretty much where we had first heard of her. She had returned to work as a software developer in the same multinational services company owner by Melvin Taylor. I have thought, that if events were to have played out differently, she may have been the poster girl to our cause: a young woman, talented enough and with real prospects to do well in life. She would have illustrated to the world what could go wrong with the transhuman dream, as she had lived it as a nightmare. I still believe that she has a compelling story to tell, but I don't think she's the one to tell it.

So, we were tipped off in July of last year of someone intent on the procedure - Lia - and that she had flown to Shanghai. It was her boyfriend, or ex-boyfriend I guess now, Kyle, that gave her away. He sent a private message the Twitter account @H+concerns that we were running at the time. He was worried about her; actually he was desperate. We said we'd help find her and give her any assistance we could, in return we were given the flight number, a fair few photos, as well as her usernames on social media accounts. This meant two things: one, that we had an opportunity to convince someone to work with us, someone who could help create problems for the transhumanists; and two, let the local authorities in China know about Dr Li and his involvement. I flew out the same week, with a couple of more technical collegues, Chris Neil and Susan Christien.

So we were in Shanghai. We had to follow, Lia to find Dr Li. We weren't spies, or agents of some hidden conspiracy as some reports have made us out to be; we were a small group of people that really believed in something; we were passionate amateurs.

We tracked Lia from the airport to her hotel. She was obviously very anxious, as you'd imagine. She was in a foreign country with no grasp of the language or culture; she was going to have a piece of metal and silicon surgically inserted into her skull by someone she'd never met. Following her was easier than we thought it would be, she seemed lost, wandering the streets of Shanghai. We were aided by the fact that the streets were not as busy as I expected, and that they had no obvious order. Riders on electric scooters ran, almost silently, in all directions, at speed. Bicycles, defying gravity, slowly wobbled past, avoiding the scooters and me. Taxis pushed through them all at an even pace, the bikes and scooters moving aside at the last possible moment. Lia walked more in the street than on the pavement; the small shops, selling everything from noodles to scooters to electrical parts, were all over the pavement. Bikes were parked on the pavement; scooters rode along it. But oddly, everything worked without drama, like those dances you can see in the evenings in the parks and side streets there, anyone can join but everyone knows the moves. We walked along, in almost plain sight, while Lia jumped from side to side, making herself unintentionally visible, making our job easier.

After a while, Lia had found a street sign that matched the paper she had grasped in her hand. This street was similarly lined with small shops, this time selling crockery, tea, fruit and haircuts; music blared out of the hairdressers, two hot looking young girls wearing bright pink sashes, stood to attention outside. Next to it, opposite a narrow alley, was an office with no obvious indication, to me anyway, of which business it was an office for. Above the door, 'Twelf', was written, and underneath, '12'. When I looked up I could see it was an office block, maybe 20 stories high. From my position, though I was uncertain if the offices were in use.
She went in. She told me that inside was empty. Opposite the door was this office desk on which sat this huge old CRT computer monitor with matching beige keyboard and mouse. It was like something from the nineteen-nineties. She told me she was thirty minutes early so she guessed noone was expected her.
In the corner was this other door, she said. When she opened the door, she saw it led downstairs, the stairs were well lit and clean so she went down. At the bottom was another door which was half-open, beyond a modern, newly renovated office that was clean and efficient looking. This is where she first met Dr Li.
Lia told me she was completely surprised by the clinic and its clean efficiency. In her mind was a vision of a rain-washed, crammed Asian city, a squalid, back street affair, where the surgery would be conducted under a naked light-bulb by a grubby man in a blood-stained white t-shirt. Whereas, it was not like that at all, and she had felt really relieved. Dr Li had said to her, 'It's not like Bladerunner, is it?' He had laughed, and said, 'it's okay, everyone thinks because this is China and we are doing sci-fi stuff, this must be like a sci-fi movie! This is Shanghai, it's a modern city.' Lia felt he was very proud of his city and that he just came across and genuine and likeable man.

So, the operation went fine. This woman showed up not long after Lia got there. She was the anaesthetist. Again she seemed very competent. They prepped her. Dr Li shaved a small area on the back of Lia's head where her crown was. They made her have a shower and put on a gown. They then took her into a small, clean room with a trolley-bed. She lay down on it. The woman gave her an injection and Lia slipped away with Dr Li holding her hand, saying soothing rubbish that she could no longer remember.

When she woke, her head hurt. A dragging, ache though, not a sharp pain. Lia asked Dr Li if everything went well. He told her, 'Of course, I've done this many times now.' He then turned and lifted up the hair at the back of his head. There was a Gate! Dr Li also had a Gate. This made Lia feel a lot better. She felt that to know the person who had just drilled a hole in her head and attached something to her brain had also had the same work done was comforting. 'Like getting a tattoo from someone with great tats', she said
Dr Li told her, 'It will ache for a couple of weeks and itch very bad for a month or more. But after a couple of months you won't notice it. You must try to keep it clean and don't bang it on anything. Sleeping will not be easy for a while.'

So, yes we could have dealt with Lia better. But you have to understand that she was an excellent opportunity for us. The Enhancers were dangerous, they could do things natural people could not. Lia was a tool for us to expose that.

We waiting for Lia back at the hotel. She did not leave her room for three or four days. The one day she left the hotel. She took a taxi, we almost lost her. We were saved by Susan, my colleague, having the speed of mind to ask the concierge where Lia went. She told him we were her friends and was supposed to meet her, but her phone must be flat or off. Luckily, the concierge went for Susan's story. He told us that she had gone to a bar. We jumped in a taxi and the unsuspecting man informed the driver of our destination.

It was one of those hipster beer bars. Lia told me that she was very much a craft beer fan and was missing home, so she went there on the consierge's recommendation. When we got there, I went into the back room conservatory area with Chris and left Susan to draw Lia out. Again we had some luck, apart from the serving staff, we four were the only people in the bar. Susan went over to Lia who was next to a fireplace that was hard to imagine being used, given the heat that day. Susan told Lia that her work collegues were in the back, and asked whether she wanted to join us. She did. It was as if Lia was almost desparate for company. We told her we were from a large technology company, in town trying to win some business; of course we couldn't tell her anything about it due to non-disclosure agreements and alike. She was animated and intrigued.

The beer helped too; as she relaxed we were able to encourage her to confide in us. We also let slip information about our business deal, all hush, hush, of course. Then, as if an imaginary line was crossed, she told us everything - why she was in Shanghai, what she had had done, everything. She told us too of her loneliness, of the her inability to connect to people, in having nothing to belong to. Before we knew it she was sobbing. We consoled her and told her we could help.

Over the course of the next week, we recruited her to our cause. She was learn how to better use her new ability by taking on a challenge. I told her, 'think of it like a training course, where the output was a working prototype, or proof of concept.' She could help us with our business mission and if successful could expect a decent payment, to make it worth her while. We told her that we were aware of a company that was developing an integration solution for the Gate that would enable it to allow better means of sensing sight and hearing, even touch. We set Lia to hack into Bright Futures Cybernetics and publish their research online.
