The morning I went to see Melvin on that rainy day, I did a strange thing. For me anyway. I went to visit a flotation therapy clinic in West London. Their sales pitch was to provide people a refuge from the stresses of daily life and float in these tanks, listening to whale-song. Actually, it wasn't like that. It was a hyper-modern clinic staffed by beautiful people in immaculately tailored white tunic suits. One led me into a room. It was so white that my eyes struggled to focus on the details in the bright light. With the door closed, it was silent. In the centre was a huge white pod, smooth and curved like a marble pebble, shaped like a semi-flattened egg. I undressed and put my jarringly non-white clothes in a cabinet. I pressed a button and the pod opened. It was full of water, subtly lit with a blue light. I got in. The water was strangely neither warm or cold. It was not there. I closed the lid. I saw the light in the room go out as the lid closed. I put in some ear plugs and stretched out. I floated. The light dimmed and went out.  It was black. The water was salty. I could hear my blood pumping. I relaxed and I could hear my heart slow. My thoughts were vivid. I thought of Sally Taylor while I floated there.

As deprived of normal sensations as I was, I was nowhere near how Sally must have felt. I could feel my tongue in my mouth, moving. I could tense my thighs or my buttocks and feel the water move across my skin. I could feel my breath enter and leave my nostrils. I could hear the organic machinery of my body. I could sense my living self.

Sally, Melvin told me, could feel nothing. Even there, in that pod, huge amounts of data was flowing into my brain via my heightened senses. She was cut off from even these few senses. She had none.

Melvin had brought me to see Sally later that day. She just lay there, grey-skinned, lifeless, supported only by machines, fed through a tube, her waste collecting in a bag. She lies there still, she will never move from that place. The room is brightly painted and there are flowers and well-wishers' cards on the surfaces by the window. The medical machinery that surrounded her made her look to me shrunken in size, even though Melvin said she was a tall girl for a ten-year old and two or three inches shy of my five feet ten. There was no life in that room, it was more a crypt with Sally's body mummified remains. The rain was still pouring outside and the sky was dark.Melvin and I each sat in a chair on either side of Sally's bed. He spoke quietly as if not to rouse her. I had to lean in to hear him clearly. I watched her chest rise and fall in time to a bellows that rose and fell within a glass cylinder. "Those early text-based communications were harrowing," he said. "She described to us the black space she lived in. The only stimulation she received was the messages that come through the Gate. If the words stopped there was nothing left: a void without echo. It terrified us as it must have terrified her. Sally's mother found it very hard."

I couldn't fathom the despair of that place. I was, and still am, also terrified of looking into its possibility. I think because of that I can sympathise with Joan Taylor, Sally's mother.

I went to see her the following day. She lived in an elegant apartment in Chelsea. She was angry when she heard Melvin had taken me to see Sally. "Was she awake?" She demanded of me. I told her that Melvin had said she was sleeping. I had noticed the camera over her head. "He has no idea that man. I bet she was awake. She has done that to me. Kids love to snoop, and Sally is no different. She pretends to be asleep, but is listening or just watching you. As I said, she does it to me all the time."

The bright paint on the walls, the flowers, the cards, they made sense now. Of course!

I coaxed a reluctant Joan back to the time before, when there was only text communication with her daughter. She told me that the initial joy she felt at sharing words with Sally only briefly lifted her from her previous despair. "What kind of existence was it? What was she, a little girl or a machine?" She is still troubled by what Sally was, she told me.

"I have to tell you Charles, I don't think I was ever happy about what happened to Sally. I know, I know, what mother could wish their child dead. But I had mourned. I had begun grieving for her when my father had been convinced by that woman to let Sally have that operation. I was furious. I had him arrested. I hated him!" Joan fell silent often for long periods when we had met. It was as if she was searching for the right words, words that could describe the indescribable struggle of a mother losing her child. She had lost her physically to the virus; she had lost her mind to Melvin and the machines they attached her to.

"No. My baby girl has gone. I still have a daughter, but she is not the child I brought into the world. Not the girl I raised and loved. That girl has gone, and I am hated for it, saying what I feel. I can see it in their eyes, in the way they speak. At best they pity me. I know my own father does that, pity me." She fell back into another reverie. I waited.

"That woman had come to one day," Joan suddenly said. "You know that manipulative bitch DiCosta. She had managed to convince my father to attach her to the Internet, so she can have more to do, more to seek, something to distract her from her, how did she say it? Her 'predicament'." Joan laughed, a hard, bitter laugh. "I mean now she could watch YouTube all day instead of speaking to her 'stupid' mother! It did mean I got some sleep though." Sally's mothers face was hard and thin and constantly a slight tension played across her lips and nose, as if she was hurting in some way. It did mean she looked at you as if you were beneath her. She looked a snob. Though I saw nothing that made her one. It was just a look on her face.

"DiCosta was then all excited. Her Internet experiment was a big hit with Sally. But she didn't want to stop there. She wanted to conduct more surgery on Sally. I said no. Actually I said over my dead body. But Dad was keen on the idea. I still think he was fucking that woman. Had to be. He was like her puppy. It was repulsive." She paused again, but this time as if regaining her wind for a final push. To get it all out.

"So, I had an idea. Or I thought I did. I said they should ask Sally what she wanted. 'We should all stop making decisions for her without even asking if she wanted them,' I told them. So they did. She was nuts for it. The brat knew more about the options than we did." She laughed again, this time there was tenderness in it. "She was remarkably  well informed, she knew what she wanted. She wanted sight and hearing." Joan's voice cracked and her eyes pooled, wet and she sucked in air across her teeth. "She told me, she wanted a hug from me and be able to feel it."

A single tear broke the banks of her one eye and she pushed across her cheek and away with the back of her index finger.
