Lia is a young woman, about 22 years old. She is a sensitive and smart woman, but shy and geeky with few friends and estranged from family. Her world is social media and the Internet, gaming and software coding. She is lonely. She is a watcher, not a participant. Her online reputation is only marginally higher than her real-world one - rather she is unknown. Her social anxiety leads her to hesitate and not contribute. She overly frets if some dickhead online or in life generally writes or says something to her that is not positive.

She struggles at work, fearful of asks for help, fearing that people will laugh. She can be funny, but often when no one else can appreciate her wit.

She is desperate to belong. She makes the wrong friends (can be any friends), finding that she does not connect to them because they are arseholes

She does not love herself sufficiently to be immune to the thoughtless comments and judgements people make.

She has flirted with religion, but found it too full of extremes of view or too contradictory logically to work with her. 

She has flirted with the underground hacker community, but finds no warmth there.

She is on the fringes. She feels lonely.

#  love

Lia had drifted away from the conversation. Kyle's comic turns and kind views on the people they know do not need her full attention; she knows them well enough. She looks up. She likes looking where people forget to look: like up. In fact, she likes sitting near the water clock, up the street from this cafe, and watch people who are not looking up, but looking down, at the ground or at their phones. Then, when a large enough cohort of down-lookers are near, she would stand and point up; to anything, it did not matter at what. The downlookers would invariably glance up, then stop, more often than not, as if astonished that anything could actually exist above their lowered line of sight. Kyle loves this game too; it was her game that she shares only with him. His laugh is contagious when he means it, and she loves that about him, and this game makes him laugh. 

Questions snap Lia back to the cafe. She sees above the various knick-nacks and trinkets, those the cafe owners had carefully added and arranged, to give the place a faux-kitch Kiwi feel. No one ever looks up of course.

"Really, you think it's a good idea? Why? You know it's dangerous, aye. You've seen the stories on the news, yeah?" A young, thin man sits opposite her. He has long hair pulled back into a ponytail, with each side of his head clipped close to his skull. His forearms are sleeved in elaborate tattoos.

"That's just _the News_, made up to keep people in their place. You know that." She reaches out and pokes his hand gently with her fork, looking up at him from under her eyes.

"People have died, Lia. That's not made up," Kyle says, as he carefully moves his hand back, just out of her reach.

"A lot haven't," she brushes away his concerns. "Imagine what I could do. I would be online _all_ the time, connected to others." She laughs. "I wouldn't have to be speaking to you." Lia lifts her coffee cup to her lips. It is cold, and dregs and dried foam the only contents. She lowers it back to the table.

"Yeah, thanks. Nice." He pushes the last piece of toast and egg into his mouth. The toast is hard and crunchy; the egg soft and sweetened by the delicious tomato chutney.

"No, you know, like, I could just think and you would know." She leans forward, towards Kyle, and the tired old table wobbles, her eyes wide and earnest. "You are my _only_ friend. We could be constantly in contact, we could share everything!"

"Is that so great? I mean, _everything_? Like, 'Hey Lia, I'm on the bus to work. The man sat next to me smells, can you smell it?'" He snorts as he laughs, he is caught up in a comic private moment. He glances around. On the table next to them a couple are smiling, and Kyle thinks at him. He leans back, satisfied

Lia puts her fork and knife neatly on the plate and pushes it slightly away. "I'm pretty sure, you've shared that on Instagram already. No one laughed then either." He laughs; Lia joins him in laughing, a little late, but he isn't listening.

"Or, like, 'Hey Lia, I'm taking a dump right now, can you feel it?'" He leans back, slaps the table and basks in his own comedy genius.

Lia feels as she always did. He isn't listening. No one is listening, no one really caring. It is just like Kyle, to make a joke when they were discussing something important. No one she knows commits to anything. It's so surface and show, no effort. Doesn't he realise?

Kyle pushes his chair back further from the table, blocking the aisle through the narrow cafe. He stands and bumps into a woman who is peering into a glass cabinet of cakes. Kyle makes a mock, knowing face to Lia, his eyes turned to the woman. "Anyway, as fun as this is, Lia, I have to go to work. I mean it's not healthy for people to be exposed to my humour for too long. You paying?" Kyle laughs again and stands there for a moment as if expecting a round of applause from the other people in the cafe. No one does. The woman at the cake display frowns slightly. The other customers all continue with their breakfast food and good coffee.

"Sure, I'll pay." She looks at him. Her eyes on his; his downwards.

"Love you sis. See you later?"

"Yep."

Kyle, spins on his heels and leaves. "Cheers, bro," he calls out the barista as he strides past. The barista doesn't look up from the shapes he is forming on the exquisite latte he is creating.

Lia sits there. She lifts the coffee cup to her lips again, and realises it is still almost empty and cold. She places it down and pinches her lips together, sucking them into her mouth, trying to keep her feelings inside.
