Melvin is a successful man who has worked hard to become wealthy and support his family to the best of his abilities. He is about 70 years old, healthy and active. He is slightly vain, but in a way that benefits his health and ensures that people do not think of him in terms of his age: no one would say that, "he is good for his age."

His wealth is due to hard work and a single lucky event. He has what is felt to be "fuck you money". He'd have to work very hard to lose it. He is frugal and unshowy; his innate confidence overrides any desire to fritter away.

He loves his family and is close to two children, but in particular his daughter who has a 7 year old girl who Melvin adores. He is patient with her and fun, so much so that people are often surprised at the way he interacts with her.

## Granddaughter

She is a bright a bubbly girl of seven. Loves puzzles and reading, particularly with Granddad who is transformed from an impatient man to a man of almost zen-like calm when together with her. The love between them is visible.

One day her toes are "tingly"... 

///RESEARCH - Motor Neurone Disease (ALS) -> Locked-in Syndrome

As her symptoms worsen their connection strengthens to the point only he can viably connect to her and understand that she is she there. Her mother despairs and begins to mourn her, much to the horror of Grandad. "She is still there, she is still my girl." he says. "You are just seeing things, even the doctors are saying she is shutting down. Please don't keep this up. Please."

Melvin switches from technophobe to technophile. He buys her a selection of gadgets and means of communicating. Then just means to stimulate her. VR goggles, small sensors to pick up means of response, haptic vibrating headsets to push vibrations into her her skull. Anything to keep connected to her as she slowly fades away.

Then he finds a woman who says she can help that there is a way to re-connect to her. 

He fights with his daughter to allow it. One last thing to try.

It is complicated, to work around all the means of interface. But it works, as she becomes more connected once again her health improves and stabilises. He has his angel back. He invests more in her and she gains mobility and better connectivity.

The the revelation. She does not endure his barrier to connection: she can just think and things happen, there is no effort, the machines, the computers, do it for her. She can start to feel things again from the physical world and interact with it effortlessly. The only issue is that Melvin is not so accessible; if he would only connect as she had...