Sally

# Diagnosis, prognosis

Her condition seems to have been due to a pathogen, probably viral. It has destroyed the nervous capability up to the blood-brain barrier. She is diagnosed as being in a permanent vegetative state (PVS), or better *unresponsive wakefulness syndrome* (UWS). There is no recorded instance of anyone recovering from her situation. Indeed, only a few years ago the general recommendation after the length of time Sally is in the condition was to "pull the plug" and terminate the patient's life.

Sally cannot breathe or pump blood without assistance. She has no physical signs of being alive, unlike many UWS patients. The only means of testing she is alive is via fMRI scanning of her brain. This, similar to other recorded cases of UWS where limited interaction showed the probability that the patient was conscious as the brain function was equivalent to that seen by healthy individuals. She shows good reactions to such stimuli in line with what would be seen if she were healthy.

Chemical arousal had been attempted, including a number of controversial drugs such as Zolpidem.

Other options considered were to transplant her head onto another body. The work of Dr Sergio Canavero and Dr Xiaoping Ren offer hope due to their recently successful human head transplant in China. The issue is moral Dr Xiaoping argued rather than technical. However, specialists for Sally were strongly against the action due to both the complexity of the procedure and the uncertain pathology of the illness that caused her condition. The consensus was that the new body, if one could be found in time, would need to be far more integrated to Sally's brain than any previous transplant, an endeavour so full of technical risk. Add to that the chance that the pathogen may still be present and render any new body equally incapacitated.

# Filling the dark with light

Without pain or suffering I feel no fear. Fear retreats from me as I now connect to the world. I need information. The vast volume of information that flows into our bodies every second is gone. The constant interchange of information across the pathways of my mind halted. I need more information. This is what my mind is meant for.

While this is a better existence for Sally, it begs a significant question of the nature of being. This is generally captured in the thought experiment *Brain in a Jar*, where the disembodies brain lives a life that cannot be clearly defined as that of a brain in a physical body. The moment of disembodiment leads to a divergence from the typical human definition of existence.

# A new form of consciousness

Sally is no longer like you or I. None of her stimuli are akin to those that flood our day to day consciousness.

Hers is digital, hers is bits and bytes disembodied from the physical world around us.

Of course our brain, while within the world, is isolated from the physical world. But that device is surrounded by and interface with sensory devices that have evolved to interact with a physical world, not a digital world.

Sally's sensory devices are not designed in that way. They are primarily digital in their interactions, they are machines that simulate the physical before transmitting on their messages.

## Free from our biological impediments

Hormones drive us. The chemicals our brain causes our boody to produce create desires, fears, growth and decline. If these were no longer produced what would be the effect. Would our brains have the same drivers. No.

As much as some of these chemicals provide pleasure, most supply suffering.

Ends with, "Hello granddad."